=== Document: ams appendix 1 - grounds for exclusion of participation ===
Appendix 1:  Grounds for  exclusion of particip ation Participants must declare that this appendix  does not  apply to their organization  or to any member of their consortium . This is a knock-out criterion. Participant: has been the subject of a conviction by final judgment of which the contracting authority is aware for one or more of the reasons  listed below shall be excluded from participation: (a) participation in a criminal  organisation , as defined in Article 2(1) of Council Joint Action 98/733/JHA(20); (b) corruption, as defined in Article 3 of the Council Act of 26 May 1997(21) and Article 3(1) of Council Joint Action 98/742/JHA(22) respectively; (c) fraud within the meaning of Article 1 of the Convention relating to the protection of the financial interests of the European Communities(23); (d) money laundering, as defined in Article 1 of Council Directive 91/308/EEC of 10 June 1991 on prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering(24). is bankrupt or is being wound up, where his affairs are being administered by the court, where he has entered into an arrangement with creditors, where he has suspended business activities or is in any analogous situation arising from a similar procedure under national laws and regulations; is the subject of proceedings for a declaration of bankruptcy, for an order for compulsory winding up or administration by the court or of an arrangement with creditors or of any other similar proceedings under national laws and regulations; has been convicted by a judgment which has the force of res judicata in accordance with the legal provisions of the country of any offence concerning his professional conduct; has been guilty of grave professional misconduct proven by any means which the contracting authorities can demonstrate; has not fulfilled obligations relating to the payment of social security contributions in accordance with the legal provisions of the country in which he is established or with those of the country of the contracting authority; has not fulfilled obligations relating to the payment of taxes in accordance with the legal provisions of the country in which he is established or with those of the country of the contracting authority; is guilty of serious misrepresentation in supplying the information required under this Section or has not supplied such information. Name: Position : On  behalf  of the organization(s): Signature : Date:

=== Document: ams appendix 2 - technical ability ===
Appendix 2: Technical ability To fulfill the  required  qualifications regarding their technical ability participants must declare that they have a: Track-record and reputation in the suggested fields of focus  Track-record and reputation in setting up  new  initiatives  of similar scale  as their proposal Access to an international network and proof of the leveraging of that network This declaration must be supported with three references, proving that participants have such technical ability. Therefore participants must fill in the three formats below, each format corresponding with one of the three required qualifications. References must refer to the participant himself  and not e.g. to activities that the participant has performed with other parties who are not a part of the consortium .  Thus if a participant participates in a consortium, the reference must refer to one or more of the consortium members.  The City of Amsterdam  reserves  the right to verify the provided information by contacting the  provided  contact person. If the information provided by the contact person differs from the information provided by the participant, the participant  may  be excluded from the design contest. This also applies when the contact person cannot be reached or is not willing to cooperate in  the verification . Reference 1:  T rack- record and reputation in the  suggested field of focus Contact person: Telephone  number : E-mail  ad d ress : Contact  person ’ s   organization : Description  which proves the track-record and reputation : Explanation why this  is considered  to be in the suggested field of focus: Reference 2:  Track -record and reputation in setting up new initiatives of similar scale as their proposal in this design contest Contact person: Telephone  number : E-mail  ad d ress : Contact  person ’ s   organization : Description  of track-record and reputation in setting up  a  new initiative Explanation w hy the referred initiative is considered to be of similar scale   Reference 3:  A ccess to an international network and proof of the leveraging of that network Contact person: Telephone  number : E-mail  ad d ress : Contact  person ’ s   organization : Description  of the international network and proof of leveraging : Explanation why this relation is  considered  to be proving access to an international network and proof of the leveraging of that network Participant declares it fulfill the required qualifications regarding his technical ability and to have filled in the three formats above, substantiating this declaration, truthfully and unconditionally: Name: Position : On  behalf  of the organization(s): Signature : Date:

=== Document: ams appendix 3 - financial ability ===
Appendix 3: Financial ability To prove that  participants  fulfill the minimum qualifications regarding their financial ability  participants  must declare that they have: The ability to gather required funding for their proposal A financial position that ensures their continuity Name: Position : On  behalf  of the organization(s): Signature : Date:

=== Document: ams appendix 5 - possible locations ===
AMS Design contest Applied Technology Institute in Amsterdam 1
Possible locations for the AMS 
Institute(s)
As mentioned in paragraph 4.2, the City is willing to provide (sections of) a number of prime locations in the city 
for the AMS Institute(s) if desired by participants. There are a number of options that the City is considering:
1. A section of the Strip ‘Overhoeks’
2. A section of the Amsterdam ‘Sciencepark’
3. A section of the ‘Marineterrein’
4. Use of office buildings held by the City
5. Housing arranged by participants independently
This paragraph contains more information about the first three locations. 
Please note that the City has no preference for a location provided the chosen location is within the borders of 
Amsterdam. The final choice on location is thus up to the participants.
Appendix 5: 
AMS Design contest Applied Technology Institute in Amsterdam 2
The Overhoeks Strip is one of the most prominent places in the heart of Amsterdam. The location is 
set in the midst of the dynamism of metropolitan life and the waterfront development along the banks 
of the IJ waterway. Besides boasting the striking Shell Tower, the new Shell laboraties and the equally 
eye-catching EYE film museum, the Strip is adjacent to the only park on the banks of the IJ. The loca-
tion offers ample space for autonomous development and a mix of diverse metropolitan functions.
5.1 Overhoeks Strip
Overhoeks in the city
The Overhoeks site lies directly opposite Amsterdam’s Cen-
tral Station, on the north side of the IJ waterway and next to 
the new EYE film museum. The site was originally owned 
by Shell, and from 1914 the Shell Technology Centre was 
established at Overhoeks. Shell’s new technology centre 
was officially opened in 2009, and a large portion (20 ha) of 
the original Shell site was sold to the City of Amsterdam. 
The location lies at the heart of the waterfront develop -
ments that have for decades been highly successful on the 
south side of IJ and have been continued on the north side 
over the last few years. Adjacent to Overhoeks lies the 
Buiksloterham, a (former) business and industry park that is 
gradually being transformed into into an area where work-
ing and living are mixed. The adjoining neighbourhoods are 
also undergoing a gradual transformation into a more urban, 
functionally mixed environment.
Overhoeks in the future
The continued development of the IJ waterfront is one of 
the spearheads in the Structural Vision: Amsterdam 2040, 
the spatial scenario for the city through to 2040. The chief 
objective is to make the IJ into the blue heart of the city. 
Over the coming decades, industrial and port areas on the IJ 
waterway’s northern banks will be transformed into a func-
tionally mixed urban areas with residential development, 
businesses and cultural amenities.
The Overhoeks district that is being developed there con-
sists in part of residential development and the Overhoeks 
Strip. The objective here is turn the site into a high density 
area with mixed use such as housing, businesses, commer-
cial and social amenities.
The Structural Vision: Amsterdam 2040 designates Over-
hoeks as a metropolitan location. With the opening of the 
eye-catching EYE film museum in 2012, which boasts a 
south-facing terrace offering views of the IJ waterway, this 
waterfront location has swiftly become a new hotspot in 
Amsterdam. 
AMS Design contest Applied Technology Institute in Amsterdam 3
v
Existing construction and available space
The Strip lies between EYE, Amsterdam’s new film mu-
seum, and the Tolhuistuin (Tollhouse Garden). Some of the 
existing buildings at the former Shell precincts have been 
preserved, including the striking Overhoeks Tower, and 
will house a lookout point, restaurants and cafés, a hotel and 
offices. Behind the tower lies the former Main Lab, which is 
part of the Strip. 
With the exception of the Overhoeks Tower and the Main 
Lab, which will be preserved, the Strip is currently unde -
veloped. Plans are under development for the Main Lab, for 
both temporary and permanent uses. Temporary accom-
modation for a secondary school (Hyperion Lyceum) has 
been positioned within the Strip. The plan is to transform 
this temporary home into definitive accommodation in a 
portion of the Main Lab. 
Within the Strip there is space for built volumes totalling c. 
155,000 m² GFA. There is a zoning scheme, a governmen-
tally ratified land development plan and a governmentally 
ratified urban development plan. In addition, a develop-
ment strategy for the Strip is currently being finalised.
Map of building guidelines 
EYE film museum and Overhoeks Tower
AMS Design contest Applied Technology Institute in Amsterdam 4
Zoning scheme
The zoning scheme for Overhoeks is irrevocable. 
The Overhoeks Strip provides space for a mix of functions 
to a maximum that is fixed in the zoning scheme.
Permitted within the site footprint (the maximums apply 
for G1, G2 and G4 combined) are:
  residential (max. 307,000 m² for G1 and G2 combined)
  offices (with or without a ‘front desk’ function) (max. 
70,000 m² offices and business premises)
  retail (max. 8,000 m² for G1, G2 and G4 combined)
  cafés, restaurants, bars and nightclubs, (‘Horeca I, II, III 
and IV’) (max. 5,000 m²)
  hotels and conference facilities (hotels and conference 
spaces, max. 25,000 m²)
  consumer-oriented care services and social amenities (to a 
max. of 48,000 m²)
  built and open-air parking facilities
  Plus utilities, gardens and courtyards, public space, traffic 
circulation areas and underground infrastructural facilities
  A combined maximum GFA of 437,000 m² (excluding 
built parking facilities) applies for the G1, G2 and G4 
zones. A maximum number of parking places has been set.
Noise sensitive functions such as heavy industries are not 
allowed in the area, with the exception immediately adja-
cent to Asterweg, in accordance with the Wet Geluidhinder 
(Noise Nuisance Act).
A feasibility study is being conducted into the permanent 
establishment of the Hyperion Lyceum in the Main Lab. In 
that case 6,000 of the 48,000 m² for amenities is already 
filled in. 
Land and area development
For Overhoeks a land development plan has been ratified 
that assumes a mixed infill, including residential and ameni-
ties. From the area development perspective the following 
aspects are important:
  The Overhoeks Strip is a location where high-rise con-
struction (up to 110m and more) is possible. In the plan 
there is space for five towers between lower-rise construc-
tion. In connection with their visibility from Amsterdam’s 
historical city centre (listed as UNESCO World Heritage 
site), the location of the towers is specified precisely in the 
zoning scheme. 
  Functions that are boosters for urban vitality and a further 
mixing of functions are highly desirable, such as business 
space, hotel, (student) housing and cultural amenities. 
  There is an ambition to achieve a development in smaller, 
contiguous built-up units.
  Combination with student housing in the Overhoeks area 
outside the Strip is possible.
Landowners
The land is owned by the City of Amsterdam. Various 
parties participate within the Overhoeks partnership, 
including Shell, EYE, ING, IJmere (housing corporation), 
24Amsterdam and the City Borough of Amsterdam-North. 
Developers and/or initiators will have to reach agreement 
with the City Council.  
Availability
The land is available, but must still be prepared for con-
struction.
v
Map of the zoning scheme 
AMS Design contest Applied Technology Institute in Amsterdam 5
Sitemap
Amenities
Adjacent to Overhoeks lies the Tolhuistuin - the Tolhuis-
garden. The Tolhuistuin is housed in the former Shell 
company restaurant. It is a cultural sanctuary and is com-
posed of a garden, pavilions and smaller buildings. The 
buildings have a mixed use with cultural amenities, catering, 
and workspaces for architects, artists and designers, among 
others.  
Shops and supermarkets are present in the adjoining Van 
der Pek neighbourhood.
Accessibility
Public transport
Overhoeks is well serviced by public transport. There is a 
24-hour, frequent ferry service to Buiksloterweg from Am -
sterdam’s Central Station to the far side of the IJ waterway: 
on workdays between 07.00 and 20.00 every 6 minutes and 
at other times every 12 minutes. The crossing time is 3 min-
utes and it takes just a few minutes to walk to Overhoeks.
Car
Overhoeks is easily accessible by car via the A10 orbital mo-
torway and the S116 and S118 exits. The Van der Pek Bridge 
across the Buikslotervaart waterway will be completed to 
coincide with the opening of the Overhoeks Tower in 2015, 
thus connecting the Van der Pek neighborhood with the 
new Overhoeks district.
AMS Design contest Applied Technology Institute in Amsterdam 6
Science Park Amsterdam is distinctive in the Amsterdam region and the Netherlands for having the 
highest concentration of researchers in the exact sciences. Alongside the science faculties of Amster-
dam’s two largest universities, there are also countless scientific institutes based there. The space at 
the Science Park is subdivided across different locations and its development contributes to the cre-
ation of an urban campus where the interaction between students, scientists and researchers in indoor 
as well as outdoor spaces is key. 
5.2 Science Park Amsterdam
Science Park a in the city
Science Park Amsterdam lies within the orbital motorway 
A10 in Amsterdam-East, between the city’s Watergraafs-
meer and Indische Buurt neighbourhoods. The site is 70 
ha in size and has developed over the years into the leading 
hub for exact sciences in Amsterdam. Science Park Amster-
dam contains the greatest concentration of researchers in 
the exact sciences in the Netherlands, with almost 5000 
students and more than 1700 researchers. Besides the 
University of Amsterdam (UvA) the site is home to various 
scientific institutions that fall under the auspices of the 
Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research (NWO), 
such as Nikhef, AMOLF and CWI. A railway station of the 
same name has been opened near Science Park Amsterdam, 
with rail links to Amsterdam’s Central Station (10 minutes) 
as well as to Hilversum and Almere.
The unique juncture of prestigious education, high-quality 
research and knowledge-intensive business has been care-
fully cultivated to stimulate innovation and collaboration. 
The area boasts a mixture of scientific institutions, educa-
tion (university), (student) housing, cafés and restaurants, 
and (sports) amenities. About 1,200 dwellings have already 
been built on the periphery of the park (including 700 stu -
dent dwellings) and a few residential projects are still under 
development. 
Science Park Amsterdam is surrounded by urban residential 
areas that have been gaining in popularity over recent years: 
Watergraafsmeer, which is most popular with city-dwelling 
families, and the lively, multicultural Indische Buurt. The 
Flevopark, one of Amsterdam’s city parks, lies on the far 
side of the ring canal that bounds the area to the north. 
The Science Park is part of Watergraafsmeer, one of the few 
low-lying polders in the city. The polder once served to pro-
duce food for the rapidly expanding 17th-century city and, 
besides its country estates and market gardens, it boastes an 
ingenious water system. 
The area’s history as an historical polder is still clearly vis-
ible: partially enclosed by water and dikes, Science Park 
AMS Design contest Applied Technology Institute in Amsterdam 7
Amsterdam sits amidst a typically Dutch landscape within 
the city boundaries. The area has now been urbanised and is 
a sought-after residential area and knowledge hub with di-
verse sports facilities, and it easily accessible. The adjoining 
residential neighbourhoods that connect to the city centre 
have in recent decades been urbanised further, transforming 
them into attractive and highly popular residential quarters.
Current functions 
The following institutions are based at Science Park Amster-
dam: 
  University of Amsterdam (UvA): all the faculties in the 
realm of the exact sciences (research and education) are 
brought together in the new main building (4000 stu-
dents and 1,700 research staff, including 125 professors;
  SURFsara: a national organisation that manages the aca -
demic intranet as well as Huygens, the national supercom-
puter;
  Nikhef, the National Institute for Subatomic Physics, is 
involved in the development, construction and exploita-
tion of the Large Hadron Colider CERN in Geneva;
  AMOLF (FOM-Foundation for Fundamental Research on 
Matter), an institute that conducts research into nano-
materials, among other things;
  CWI (Centre for Mathematics and Computer Science);
  EGI (European Grid Initiative) Head Quarters of the Euro-
pean Research Program in the field of grid-computing.
  Five multi-tenant business complexes that house c. 100 
enterprises in the Matrix buildings. Two buildings contain 
office and laboratory space for chemical and life sciences 
companies, three buildings are ‘normal’ office buildings. 
  Amsterdam University College (AUC) is an international 
bachelor programme that is run jointly by the University 
of Amsterdam (UvA) and the Vrije Universiteit Amster-
dam (VU) for excellent students. In this English-language 
liberal arts and sciences programme the students delve 
into wide-ranging social and scientific questions across 
various disciplines. 50% of ca. 900 students come from 
outside of the Netherlands (mainly India, America, Asia 
and Eastern Europe); 
  Data centres for various commercial and non-commercial 
enterprises. 
  AMS-IX (the Amsterdam Internet eXchange) is the 
world’s second largest internet hub, known for its su-
perior quality and low costs. Its activities at Science Park 
Amsterdam include providing some access portals for 
commercial parties.
  1,200 dwellings, of which 700 are for students and a fur-
ther 600 student dwellings that are under construction, 
and 150 ‘normal’ apartments that are under development.
  Hotel (200 rooms including congresfacilities)
  Sports facilities (10.000m2)
  Small shop, refectory, various cafés and restaurants, on-
site crèche.  
 
In the vicinity: 
  Flevopark 
  Food outlets, cultural amenities, schools and shops in 
the adjoining neighbourhoods of Watergraafsmeer and 
Indische Buurt 
Site map 
AMS Design contest Applied Technology Institute in Amsterdam 8
Science Park Masterplan with available plots in dark brown 
The Science Park in the future
In the Structural Vision: Amsterdam 2040 the Science 
Park is typified as a metropolitan campus and science centre 
with a mix of functions in high densities. By means of the 
positioning of buildings and public space the planners have 
endeavoured to establish an interactive environment that 
brings researchers, students and start-ups into contact with 
each other in an informal way.
The Flevopark has the potential to develop into a metro-
politan location and will be more easily accessible from the 
Science Park in the future thanks to the construction of a 
bridge across the ring canal.
At Science Park Amsterdam there are fine opportunities for 
spatial integration as well as for cooperation between research 
and educational institutions. One new collaboration at the 
park is the multi-tenant complex for life sciences enterprises of 
c. 6,000 m² with a laboratory. There is a similar initiative for a 
multi-tenant complex for technology and engineering enter-
prises. Also in the pipeline is a move from the Uithof/Utrecht 
to Science Park Amsterdam by the Netherlands Institute for 
Space Research (SRON), an NWO institution. 
Furthermore the UvA (University of Amsterdam) and the 
VU (Free University) have joint plans to set up the Am-
sterdam Faculty of Science (AFS) which will be housed at 
Science Park and the VU-campus at the South Axis. In order 
to enhance the technical profile the aim is to concentrate all 
beta sciences with existing technological institutes in Sci-
ence Park Amsterdam.
Existing construction and available space
Much of the available space has already been developed. 
Still ca. 200.000 m2 is available for development. There are 
three landowners: the University of Amsterdam (UvA), the 
Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research (NWO) 
and the City of Amsterdam. These parties are working on 
the area’s development together.
Within the section that is owned by the UvA there is still 
room for 155,000 m² GFA of construction, while within 
the NWO’s terrain there is room for a further 40,000 to 
60,000 m² GFA. The new zoning scheme was approved by 
the city council in February 2012. In almost the entire area 
mixed use of research, education and high quality enterpris-
es is stimulated combined with amenities and sportfacili-
ties. At some locations mix with residential development 
and/or short-stay accommodation is stimulated. 
The minimum unit of development for further initiatives 
is 3,000 m², and there is a maximum of 15,000 to 20,000 
m² per building. The maximum per field is 20,000 to 
45,000 m². A mix of building types in high and low rise is 
allowed and temporary parking facilities will be replaced by 
built parking facilities for collective use.
AMS Design contest Applied Technology Institute in Amsterdam 9
In the process of granting land, the spatial arrangement per 
development plot will be considered in conjunction with 
the initiators.
Zoning scheme
The new zoning scheme for the area was approved in Feb-
ruary 2013. 
In the plan all the construction, housing excepted, is speci-
fied as mixed. This includes:
institutions for higher education and scientific research; 
  medical facilities, exclusively where mixed-2 is specifically 
indicated;
  businesses in categories 1 through 3.2, with a maximum 
of 50% office space per company;
  central amenities;
  sport facilities;
  (‘Horeca V’), exclusively where indicated;
  local specific form of mixed-3, exclusively for cafés and/or 
restaurants (‘Horeca III and IV’);
  with the accompanying workshops, parking space, etc.
Availability
The land is available as ‘ready to build’, or can be prepared 
for construction within three months.
Accessibility
Public transport
The Science Park can be reached by bus and by regional 
train.
There is a frequent bus service (every 7.5 minutes during 
the day) from Amsterdam Amstel intercity station to the 
Science Park. There is also a bus link from Muiderpoort 
railway station.  
From Amsterdam Central Station (10 minutes) or from 
Zwolle/Lelystad/Almere, a train stops twice per hour at 
Amsterdam Science Park station from either direction: two 
sprinters (regional trains) per hour from Zwolle/Lelystad/
Almere and two sprinters per hour from Hilversum. This 
means there are four trains per hour from Amsterdam Sci-
ence Park to Amsterdam Central Station. Every half hour 
there is a direct train between Science Park Amsterdam and 
Schiphol Airport (32 minutes) . 
Car
The park is situated close to the Watergraafsmeer inter-
change and is therefore easily accessible from the A10 
orbital motorway (exits S113 and S114). There are plans 
for a direct link with the A10 via a tunnel that would cut 
through under the railway.
Map of the zoning scheme
AMS Design contest Applied Technology Institute in Amsterdam 10
The Naval Base and precincts is perhaps the most exciting and challenging location in the city, a site where 
the rich history of Amsterdam’s 17th-century Golden Age is still visibly and tangibly present. At the mo-
ment the precincts are still in the hands of central government, but in future this location has the potential 
to develop into the linchpin of a dynamic environment with numerous cultural amenities. In addition, being 
surrounded by water the terrain offers space for a diversity of developments in a green, open setting. 
5.3 Naval Base 
The Naval Base in the city 
The Naval Base lies in the heart of Amsterdam, alongside the 
National Maritime Museum (Scheepvaartmuseum) over-
looking the Oosterdok (Eastern Docks), clamped between 
the historical centre and the railway embankment. The 
Naval Base is 350 years old and occupies the location where 
Amsterdam flourished with its shipping and trade. It was 
constructed as a shipyard where vessels were built for the 
Admirality of Amsterdam, situated next to the land’s naval 
warehouse, which is home of the present-day National 
Maritime Museum. Around 1800 the precincts became the 
property of the navy. Over the years it lost its shipbuild-
ing function, particularly when the State Shipyards were 
transferred to Den Helder. Originally there was a basin in 
the middle where the newly built ships lay at anchor. During 
the digging of the nearby IJ Tunnel in the 1960s, part of the 
wharf with buildings was demolished and soil was dumped 
into the basin. 
On the westside the Navel Base lies at the Oosterdok-water. 
Around this former doks the last years a strong cultural 
cluster has developed rapidly. Around the Oostdok-water 
the Science Center Nemo (on top of the IJtunnel), the AR-
chitecture Center of AMsterdam (ARCAM), a historical ship 
harber, the new Amsterdam Public Library (OBA) and con-
servatorium have been developed besides the existing ‘old’ 
National Maritime Museum (which just has been renovated). 
With these recent developments an real vivid new cultural 
cluster has risen just next to the Naval Base. 
Together with the housing along the Kattenburgervaart wa -
terway, the Naval Base forms the island of Kattenburg, part 
of the city’s eastern peninsulas of Kattenburg, Wittenburg 
and Oostenburg. Kattenburgerstraat divides the island in 
two. At the moment the terrain is bordered by a high wall on 
its east side, with neighbourhoods from Amsterdam’s urban 
renewal period on the other side. The Naval Base is one of 
the few interconnected and extensively developed sites in 
this part of the city. It is an enclosed site, rich in history. Sev-
eral buildings and the wall are listed monuments.
The Naval Base in the future
The Naval Base is the property of the Dutch Ministry of 
Defence. It is likely that over the coming years sections of the 
precincts or the buildings will fall vacant, as divisions of the 
Ministry of Defence will probably leave. The Structural Vision 
for Amsterdam states that the site has the potential to develop 
into a new metropolitan location. The most obvious infill is as 
a functionally mixed urban area with a partial preservation of 
open space for nautical and specific cultural events.
AMS Design contest Applied Technology Institute in Amsterdam 11
National government and the City of Amsterdam work 
together on the future of the Naval base barracks. The first 
defence functions will possibly move out between 2013 
and 2017, so properties will then become available. The 
appropriate development strategy for the area is currently 
under consideration. The planning is still in a highly con-
ceptual phase. 
The basic idea for the coming years is that the Naval Base 
barracks will gradually be transformed on the basis of con -
crete initiatives, probably starting in the existing buildings. 
National and municipal governments are open to a diversity 
of functions that are oriented towards social interchange 
and fit within a city centre setting. The buildings that be-
come vacant can be integrated within such plans.
At the moment there are no specified spatial preconditions. 
This is partially dependent on the introduction of new 
functions. The cooperation between municipal government 
and the Dutch government, as the site’s owner, is 
certainly important in this regard. The area lies within the 
contours of Amsterdam’s historical centre, which is listed 
as a UNESCO World Heritage site, so there are limited 
opportunities for high-rise development.
Existing development and available space
At the moment there are still various defence units based 
within the precincts. The site plays a role as an urban com-
mand centre during large-scale events in the city. There is 
plenty of beautiful green spaces and undeveloped space. 
The Ministry of Defence currently has the following func-
tions at the base: congress facilities, training, office space, 
overnight accommodation, housing, sports halls (fitness 
v
Site map
and pitches), storage, garage, parking, docks, helicopter pad, 
general and technical services (command centre) for large-
scale events, and Military Police and museum depot.
Zoning scheme
The plan area is currently subject to the ‘Voorbereidings-
besluit’ Naval Base (Preparatory decision regarding the 
naval complex), which came into effect on 17 January 2013 
and applies for one year. This means that interim applica-
tions which fit within the current plan but cannot be main-
tained in the future plans will be rejected, while plans that 
would be permissible in the future plans will be allowed to 
go ahead already. At the moment there is no actual zoning 
scheme in the pipeline. 
Accessibility
Public transport
Amsterdam’s Central Station is within view (c. 2 km) 
and can be reached on foot in about 15 minutes. There are 
frequent buses from and to CS that pass the Naval Base 
(Kattenburgerstraat stop), and a tram to CS and IJburg stops 
on Piet Heinkade.
Car
Good accessibility via the A10 orbital motorway and the IJ 
Tunnel, Piet Hein Tunnel and Kattenburgerstraat. Parking 
will have to be provided on private land. Due to the special 
private character of the terrain lends itself well to reduce car 
use.
AMS Design contest Applied Technology Institute in Amsterdam 12
Structural Vision: Amsterdam 2040

=== Document: ams paragraph 8 - checklist for round 1 submission ===
Checklist  for Round 1 The checklist below beholds all the documents, the appendices to be used and the number of pages not to be exceeded, that  participants  must add to their Round 1 submission.   Each element must be provided in a separate searchable  pdf  file, as described in paragraph  6.2 . Documents to be provided, in the following order: Appendix Max pages File name Cover letter,  inclu ding: Introduction to the  participant ; If participating as a consortium: a description of the role of each organization within the consortium; A four digit number assigned to  the  proposal to ensure an anonymous treating. - - Cover letter: YYYY Minimum requirements  (knock-out, includes grounds for exclusion and required qualifications) Appendix Max pages File name Declaration regarding the grounds for exclusion 1 - Requirement 1: YYYY Declaration regarding technical ability, including the requested supporting information 2 - Requirement 2: YYYY Declaration regarding financial ability 3 - Requirement 3: YYYY Award criteria Appendix Max pages File name Initial proposal: high-level vision and roadmap – ANONYMOUS - 10 Award criterion 1: YYYY Required support from the City – ANONYMOUS 4 6 Award criterion 2: YYYY Competences of the  participant  – ANONYMOUS - 4 Award criterion 3: YYYY Participant declares that his proposal is submitted according to this checklist: Name: Position : On  behalf  of the organization(s): Signature : Date: