=== Document: vs125e_20220309_rvo_qes_qew_annex 9_complaints-procedure ===
Complaints procedure 
 
 
Complaint 
A complaint is a written notification by an enterprise with an interest in the tender1 to the contracting authority, 
in which the entrepreneur specifies with reasons on what points he disagrees with the tender or any part of it. 
 
The complaint must at least contain:  
• The date. 
• The name and address of the entrepreneur. 
• The name of the tender. 
• The content of the complaint in which the complaint is clearly defined as such. 
• How the complaint could be resolved according to the entrepreneur. 
 
Not every question by an entrepreneur in a tendering procedure needs to lead to a complaint and not every 
complaint requires going through the entire complaints procedure. Questions and requests relating to 
clarification of aspects of the tendering procedure must be submitted in time by the entrepreneur to the 
contracting authority in accordance with the provisions in the tender document. This also applies to a request to 
make a non-essential change in the tender documents. Only if the entrepreneur continues to disagree with the 
response (in the summary of additional information and changes) of the contracting authority, or if a response 
is not forthcoming, may he lodge a complaint with the contracting authority. The entrepreneur may also lodge a 
complaint immediately.  
 
Complaints relate to aspects of the tender that come within the scope of the Public Procurement Act 2012. 
Complaints may not question the tender policy of the contracting authority in general. 
 
Who is allowed to lodge a complaint? 
A complaint may be lodged by entrepreneurs with an interest in being awarded a specific tender. This includes: 
- interested entrepreneurs  
- (potential) tenderers and candidates 
- subcontractors2 of (potential) tenderers and candidates 
- industry associations and industry-related advice centres of entrepreneurs. 
 
Complaints may not be lodged anonymously. However, if it has any objections, an industry association may 
submit a complaint in its private capacity if this complaint relates to a specific tender which concerns one or 
more entrepreneurs in the industry. 
 
What is the final date for submitting a complaint? 
The entrepreneur is advised to lodge his complaint at the earliest possible opportunity. If the complaint is 
submitted too late, the contracting authority will not be able to resolve the complaint during the ongoing 
procedure. 
 
Submitting a complaint does not stop a tender procedure. The contracting authority may or may not decide to 
suspend the procedure. 
 
1 Tender also includes the proposal procedure. 
2 Subcontractors may lodge a complaint in so far as the complaint does not concern the relationship between 
main contractor and subcontractor. 
 
Where should you submit your complaint?  
Complaints should be submitted in writing to: 
KlachtenmeldpuntAanbesteden@minezk.nl 
 
The complaint will be dealt with by one or more persons who have not been involved with the tender to which 
the complaint relates. 
 
The complaints handling procedure 
a. After receiving the complaint in the manner described above, the complaints office immediately confirms it 
has received the complaint. 
b. The complaints office subsequently investigates if the complaint is legitimate, if necessary on the basis of 
information provided by the entrepreneur and the contracting authority. The complaints office starts this 
investigation as soon as possible, proceeds expeditiously, while taking account of the schedule of the 
tender procedure. 
c. If, after the complaint has been investigated by the complaints office, the contracting authority concludes 
that the complaint is (partially) legitimate and the contracting authority takes corrective and/or preventive 
measures, the contracting authority will inform the entrepreneur of this in writing as soon as possible. The 
other (potential) tenderers and candidates are also informed. Depending on the stage of the tender 
procedure, the contact person of the tender of the contracting authority may communicate the measures to 
the persons involved in the tender at the same time as the person who made the complaint is informed. 
This is to prevent giving undue preference to any of the parties.  
d. If, after the investigation, the contracting authority concludes that the complaint is not legitimate, it will 
reject the complaint giving its reasons for doing so and inform the entrepreneur. 
e. At the request of the entrepreneur or the contracting authority, the complaints office may propose, before 
the contracting authority makes a decision, to have the complaint submitted to the Committee of 
Tendering Experts (article 4.27 Aanbestedingswet (Public Procurement Act) 2012). 
f. When the contracting authority has informed the entrepreneur of the decision it has reached, or if the 
contracting authority fails to respond to the complaint within a reasonable term, the complainant may 
submit the complaint to the Committee of Tendering Experts.

=== Document: vs125e_20220309_rvo_qes_qew_annex 8_arvodi_2018-english-may2018 ===
AVT18/BZ125884C 1 
General Government Terms and Conditions 
for Public Service Contracts 2018  
(ARVODI 2018) 
A
dopted by order of  
the Prime Minister, 
Minister of General Affairs, 
of 3 May 2018, no. 3219106 
AVT18/BZ125884C 2  
I GENERAL 
Article 1 Definitions  
The following terms are written with initial capitals in these general terms and 
conditions and are defined as follows: 
1.1 Professional Errors: shortcomings such as mistakes, acts of carelessness, 
negligence, omissions and erroneous advice, which a competent and 
conscientious contractor would, in the given circumstances and assuming a 
normal degree of attention, competence and professionalism, not commit; 
1.2 Schedule: a document attached to the Contract which, when initialled by both 
Parties, forms an integral part of the Contract; 
1.3 Services: the work the Contractor is to perform for the Contracting Authority 
under the terms of the Contract; 
1.4 Contracting Authority: the State of the Netherlands or any other contracting 
authority using these general terms and conditions; 
1.5 Contractor: the counterparty of the Contracting Authority; 
1.6 Contract: the written agreement between the Contracting Authority and the 
Contractor to which the Terms and Conditions are declared to apply; 
1.7 Party: the Contracting Authority or Contractor, depending on the context; 
1.8 Contracting Authority’s Staff: the members of staff and/or assistants used by the 
Contracting Authority during the performance of the Contract; 
1.9 Contractor’s Staff: the members of staff and/or assistants used by the Contractor 
for the purpose of performing the Contract for whom the Contractor is 
responsible under the terms of the Contract; 
1.10 Terms and Conditions: these general terms and conditions, which apply to and 
form an integral part of the Contract.  
1.11 Working Day: calendar day, except weekends and generally recognised public 
holidays within the meaning of section 3, subsection 1 of the General Extension 
of Time Limits Act. 
Article 2 Application 
2.1 Amendments or additions to the Contract or derogations from the Terms and 
Conditions (or parts of them) are binding only if they have been explicitly agreed 
in writing by the Parties.  
2.2 In the event of inconsistency between the Dutch text of these Terms and 
Conditions and translations of them, the Dutch text prevails. 
 
AVT18/BZ125884C 3  
II PERFORMANCE OF THE CONTRACT 
Article 3 Guarantees given by the Contractor 
3.1 The Contractor guarantees that the Services to be provided by it or on its behalf 
meet the requirements laid down in the Contract. 
3.2 The Contractor guarantees that the Services to be provided by it or on its behalf 
will be performed in a professional manner. 
Article 4 Assessment and acceptance  
4.1 The Contracting Authority will assess the results of the Services within 30 days 
of the date of their delivery. If it decides that the results are satisfactory, it will 
notify the Contractor that they have been accepted. 
4.2 If the Contracting Authority decides that the results of the Services are 
unsatisfactory, it will notify the Contractor that they have not been accepted. 
4.3 The Contracting Authority may have the results of the Services assessed by 
third parties. 
4.4 If the Contracting Authority has not notified the Contractor within 30 days of the 
date of delivery of the Services, it will be deemed to have accepted the results. 
 
4.5 The Contracting Authority is not obliged to make any payment to the Contractor until the 
results have been accepted. 
 
Article 5 Place and time of performance 
 
 The Services will be performed at the time and place stated in the Contract. 
 
Article 6 Replacement of staff responsible for performing the Services 
 
6.1 The Contractor may temporarily or permanently replace staff who are 
responsible for performing the Services only by way of exception and with the 
prior consent of the Contracting Authority. The Contracting Authority will not 
withhold its consent without good reason and may attach conditions to its 
consent. The fees charged for the staff originally deployed may not be raised if 
they are replaced. 
 
6.2 If the Contracting Authority wishes to replace staff who are responsible for 
performing the Services, because it feels that this is either necessary or 
desirable for the proper performance of the Contract, the Contractor will comply 
with the Contracting Authority’s request. The fee charged for replacement staff 
will not be any higher than that laid down in the Contract for the staff replaced. 
 
6.3 If staff responsible for performing the Contract are replaced, the expertise, 
qualifications and experience of the replacement staff deployed by the 
Contractor must be at least equal to those of the original staff or must meet the 
criteria agreed by the Parties in this regard. 
AVT18/BZ125884C 4  
Article 7 Use of Contracting Authority’s property 
The Parties may agree that, in performing the Services, the Contractor may make use 
of property belonging to the Contracting Authority, which the Contracting Authority has 
lent to the Contractor for this purpose. The Contracting Authority may attach conditions 
to the loan of this property. 
Article 8 Subcontracting 
8.1 In performing the Contract, the Contractor may make use of third-party services 
only after it has obtained the Contracting Authority’s consent. The Contracting 
Authority will not withhold its consent without good reason. It may attach 
conditions to its consent. 
8.2 The fact that the Contracting Authority has given its consent does not affect the 
Contractor’s own responsibility and liability for discharging the obligations 
imposed on it under the Contract, and for discharging the obligations imposed on 
it as an employer under tax and social insurance law.
 
 
 
III RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN PARTIES AND SUPERVISION
 
Article 9 Progress reports 
 
The Contractor will report to the Contracting Authority on the progress of the work as 
often as and in a manner as the Contract prescribes, or as the Contracting Authority 
deems fit. 
Article 10 Contacts 
 
10.1 Each Party will designate a contact who will be responsible for maintaining 
contacts in relation to the performance of the Contract. The Parties will notify 
each other of the person they have appointed as their contact.
 
 
10.2 The contacts may represent and bind the Parties only as regards the 
performance of the Contract. They may not amend the Contract.  
 
Article 11 Supervisory/steering committee 
 
The Contract may provide for the formation of a supervisory or steering committee 
whose duties, powers and composition may be laid down in the Contract.  
 
Article 12 Method of notification 
 
12.1 Notifications given by one Party to the other, including undertakings and further 
agreements, that are relevant to the performance of the Contract are binding on 
the Parties only if they are given or confirmed in writing by an authorised person. 
 
12.2 ‘In writing’ is understood to include ‘electronically’, provided: 
a. the notification can be consulted by the addressee; 
AVT18/BZ125884C 5  
b. the authenticity of the notification is sufficiently guaranteed; and 
c. the identity of the sender can be determined with sufficient certainty. 
 
Article 13 Confidentiality 
 
13.1 The Contractor will not divulge in any way any information that comes to its 
knowledge in performing the Contract and which it knows or may reasonably be 
assumed to know is confidential, except in so far as it is compelled to divulge 
such information under a statutory regulation or court ruling. 
 
13.2 The Contractor will impose the same duty of confidentiality on its own Staff and 
guarantees that they will fulfil it. 
 
13.3 The Contractor will not divulge to third parties in any way the results of the 
Services performed or provide any information on the results to third parties 
without the Contracting Authority’s express consent. The Contracting Authority 
may attach conditions to such consent. 
 
13.4 After termination of the Contract, the Contractor must hand over to the 
Contracting Authority without delay, at the Contracting Authority’s first request, 
information that the Contractor has in its possession for the purpose of 
performing the Contract, with the exception of information that the Contractor is 
required to have in its possession on the basis of legislation and/or generally 
accepted professional rules applicable to the Contractor. 
 
13.5 If the Contractor breaches its duty of confidentiality, the Contracting Authority 
may impose a penalty, as laid down in the Contract. Payment of a penalty that is 
payable immediately does not discharge the Contractor from its liability for 
indemnifying any damage caused by the breach. 
 
Article 14 Processing of personal data 
 
14.1 In so far as the Contractor, as a processor within the meaning of the General 
Data Protection Regulation, processes personal data for the Contracting 
Authority in the framework of the implementation of the Personal Data 
Agreement, the Contractor guarantees the application of appropriate technical 
and organisational measures, so that processing meets the requirements of the 
General Data Protection Regulation and the protection of the data subjects is 
ensured. The Contractor will process personal data only for and on the basis of 
written instructions from the Contracting Authority, barring statutory rules to the 
contrary. 
 
14.2. The Parties will regulate the processing of personal data by the Contractor for 
the Contracting Authority by means of an agreement. 
 
Article 15 Security 
 
15.1 The Contractor will instruct the Contractor’s Staff involved in the performance of 
the work, in so far as the work is performed on the Contracting Authority’s 
premises, to comply with the Contracting Authority’s security procedures and 
AVT18/BZ125884C 6  
other rules. The Contracting Authority will inform the Contractor in good time 
about these procedures and rules. 
 
15.2  The Contracting Authority may require the Contractor to provide certificates of 
conduct for the Contractor’s Staff, at least three Working Days before work 
begins on the Contracting Authority’s premises. 
 
15.3 The Contracting Authority may carry out security checks on members of the 
Contractor’s Staff, in accordance with the rules usually applied by the 
Contracting Authority. The Contractor will lend its full cooperation to such 
checks. The Contracting Authority may, on the basis of the results of a security 
check, refuse to allow the person in question to work on the Contract, without 
giving any reasons.
 
 
 
IV FINANCIAL PROVISIONS 
 
Article 16 Payment and upward and downward contract variations 
 
16.1 The Contracting Authority will pay for the costs actually incurred and the hours 
actually worked by the Contractor, unless a fixed fee has been agreed in the 
Contract. 
 
16.2 Should any additional requirements stipulated by the Contracting Authority, any 
new information that is brought to the notice of the Contracting Authority or any 
changes to the statutory regulations applicable to the work in question lead to 
the work performed by the Contractor under the Contract becoming 
demonstrably more demanding or extensive, this additional work constitutes an 
upward contract variation for which the Contractor may charge a fee. Additional 
work or new information which the Contractor could have foreseen when the 
Contract was signed is not regarded as constituting an upward contract 
variation. If a Party regards a particular request as constituting an upward 
contract variation, it will notify the other Party thereof as quickly as possible. 
 
16.3 The Contractor will not start any additional work that constitutes an upward 
contract variation until it has received a written order to this effect from the 
Contracting Authority. In order to obtain such an order, the Contractor will issue 
a written quotation specifying the amount of additional work that is to be 
performed, its duration and cost. Any additional work performed by the 
Contractor will be subject to the provisions of the Contract, including those on 
fees and discounts, where relevant, in so far as these have not been amended 
by the Contracting Authority’s written order. When submitting a quotation, the 
Contractor may not impose terms and conditions that are either more detailed or 
more stringent than the original Terms and Conditions, unless it does so with the 
Contracting Authority’s consent.
 
 
16.4 The Contractor will always accept and carry out an order for additional work 
representing up to a maximum of 10% of the original Contract value. Such an 
order for additional work is subject to the provisions of the Contract. 
 
AVT18/BZ125884C 7  
16.5 Should any new information that is brought to the notice of the Contracting 
Authority or any changes to the statutory regulations applicable to the work in 
question lead to the work performed by the Contractor under the Contract 
becoming demonstrably less demanding or extensive, this constitutes a 
downward contract variation for which the Contracting Authority is entitled to a 
discount. If a Party regards a particular change as constituting a downward 
contract variation, it will notify the other Party thereof in writing as quickly as 
possible. If a fixed fee has been agreed, the Parties will consult to agree on the 
value of the discount, which will be deducted from the agreed fee. 
 
Article 17 Invoicing 
 
17.1 The Contractor will send the invoice electronically so that the Contracting 
Authority can receive and process it electronically, in accordance with the 
specifications issued by the Contracting Authority. 
 
17.2 The Contractor will send invoices to the Contracting Authority. Each invoice will 
state the date and number of the Contract and the relevant VAT charge. If 
applicable under article 4, the Contractor will enclose a copy of the notice of 
acceptance with the invoice, together with any other information requested by 
the Contracting Authority. 
 
 
17.3 If it has been agreed that the invoice will be based on the actual amount of time 
spent as calculated after the completion of the Contract, the Contractor will 
compile an itemised invoice in a format which the Contracting Authority is free to 
specify. The Contractor’s invoice will state the number of days and hours 
actually and necessarily spent on the Contract, as well as the relevant dates, 
and will also contain a brief description of the work performed, and of any travel 
and accommodation expenses if these are not included in the daily or hourly 
rates under the Contract. 
 
17.4 The Contractor will present separate invoices for any upward contract variations 
after the additional work in question has been completed and accepted by the 
Contracting Authority. The invoices will explicitly state the nature and amount of 
the additional work performed, which will be itemised on the basis of authentic 
documents. 
 
Article 18 Payment and invoice audits 
 
18.1 The Contracting Authority will pay the Contractor the amount owing under the 
Contract no later than 30 days of receiving the relevant invoice, provided it 
satisfies the provisions of the Contract. 
 
18.2 If the Contracting Authority fails without good reason to pay an invoice within 
the time limit stipulated in article 18.1, it will automatically be liable to pay: a. 
compensation as referred to in article 6:96, paragraph 4 of the Dutch Civil 
Code, and b. statutory interest as referred to in article 6:119b, paragraph 1 of 
the Dutch Civil Code. The compensation and interest will be payable on 
demand. 
 
 
AVT18/BZ125884C 8  
18.3 The Contracting Authority may instruct an accountant designated by the 
Contracting Authority, as referred to in article 2:393, paragraph 1 of the Dutch 
Civil Code, to audit the invoices submitted by the Contractor to determine their 
accuracy. The Contractor will allow the accountant to inspect its books and 
documents, and will supply him with any information he requests. This audit is 
confidential and does not involve any more than is necessary to check the 
invoices. The accountant will report as quickly as possible to both Parties. The 
Contracting Authority will pay the cost of the accountant’s audit, unless the 
latter’s work reveals that the invoices in question are not accurate or complete, 
in which case the Contractor will be liable for the cost of the inspection. 
 
18.4 The Contracting Authority may defer payment of an invoice or a portion thereof,  
about which the Parties have failed to reach agreement, for the duration of the 
accountant’s audit. The Contracting Authority will exercise this right only if it has 
reasonable doubts about the accuracy of the invoice in question. 
 
18.5 The Contractor is not entitled to suspend or terminate its work on account of the 
Contracting Authority’s failure to pay an invoice within the stipulated time limit, or 
if the Contracting Authority does not pay an invoice because it suspects that the 
invoice is inaccurate or because the Services have not been properly performed. 
 
Article 19 Advance 
 
19.1 If the Contracting Authority, for the purpose of performing the Contract, makes 
one or more payments for Services that have not yet been rendered, it may 
require the Contractor to issue the Contracting Authority with an on-demand 
bank guarantee prior to making the payment(s) in question, to the value of the 
payment(s) in question. The Contracting Authority will not be required to pay any 
of the cost of the guarantee.  
 
19.2 If the Contracting Authority does not accept certain Services within the stipulated 
time limit as a result of a failure that is attributable to the Contractor, the 
Contractor is liable to pay statutory interest on the advance for as long as the 
failure persists. 
 
19.3 The on-demand bank guarantee will be issued by a bank approved by the 
Contracting Authority, in accordance with the model enclosed with these Terms 
and Conditions (see Annexe 1). 
 
 
V NON-PERFORMANCE 
 
Article 20 Potential delays 
 
20.1 If there is any risk of the performance of the Services being delayed, the 
Contractor will immediately notify the Contracting Authority, explaining the 
reasons for and the consequences of the potential delay. The Contractor will 
also propose measures to avoid further delay. 
 
 
AVT18/BZ125884C 9  
20.2 Within 14 days of receiving the notification referred to in the preceding 
paragraph, the Contracting Authority will notify the Contractor whether or not it 
agrees with the proposed measures and the consequences described by the 
Contractor. Agreement does not imply any acceptance by the Contracting 
Authority of the cause of the potential delay, and does not affect any other rights 
or claims accruing to the Contracting Authority under the Contract and 
legislation. 
 
Article 21 Liability  
 
21.1 If one of the Parties fails to discharge its obligations under the Contract, the 
other Party may give notice of default. The defaulting Party is deemed to be 
immediately in default, however, if it is clear that there is no prospect 
whatsoever of it discharging the obligations in question within the stipulated time 
limit for reasons other than force majeure. The notice of default will be given in 
writing, and the defaulting Party will be given a reasonable period of time in 
which to discharge its obligations. This is a strict deadline. The defaulting Party 
is in default if it fails to discharge its obligations by the deadline set. 
 
21.2 The notice of default referred to in the preceding paragraph is not required if the 
time limit by which the agreed Services should have been performed has been 
extended prior to its expiry. If the defaulting Party fails to discharge its 
obligations as described in the preceding paragraph by the end of the extended 
time limit, the defaulting Party is held to be immediately in default as from that 
date. 
 
 
21.3 Unless agreed otherwise, a Party that imputably fails to discharge its obligations 
is liable to the other Party for any damage incurred by the other Party, on the 
understanding that liability is limited to the following amounts: 
− for Contracts whose total value is less than or equal to €50,000: €150,000 
per event and €300,000 for each year or part of a year that the Contract has 
been in force; 
− for Contracts whose total value is greater than €50,000 but less than or 
equal to €100,000: €300,000 per event and €500,000 for each year or part of 
a year that the Contract has been in force; 
− for Contracts whose total value is greater than €100,000 but less than or 
equal to €150,000: €500,000 per event and €1,000,000 for each year or part 
of a year that the Contract has been in force; 
− for Contracts whose total value is greater than €150,000 but less than or 
equal to €500,000: €1,500,000 per event and €3,000,000 for each year or 
part of a year that the Contract has been in force; 
− for Contracts whose total value is greater than €500,000: €3,000,000 per 
event and €5,000,000 for each year or part of a year that the Contract has 
been in force. 
 
Related events will be treated as a single event. 
 
The limitation of liability referred to above will not apply: 
a. in the event of third-party claims for compensation in respect of death or 
personal injury; 
AVT18/BZ125884C 10  
b. in the event of intent or gross negligence on the part of the other Party, the 
Contractor’s Staff or the Contracting Authority’s Staff; 
c. in the event of a breach of intellectual property rights as referred to in article 
24; 
d. in the event of an agreement concluded between the Parties under article 
14, paragraph 2: to claims for compensation in relation to failure to comply 
with that agreement, including any fines imposed by the supervisory 
authority. 
 
21.4 If, in performing the Services, the Contractor makes use of property belonging to 
the Contracting Authority as referred to in article 7, the Contractor is liable for 
any damage caused to such property. The limitation of liability set out in 
paragraph 3 applies mutatis mutandis. 
 
21.5 If the Contractor or third parties suffer damage, in whatever manner, as a result 
of using property belonging to the Contracting Authority as referred to in article 
7, the Contractor will bear the full expense and risk. The limitation of liability set 
out in paragraph 3 applies mutatis mutandis. 
 
21.6 The Contractor is liable for all obligations in respect of the Contractor’s Staff, 
including those arising under tax and social insurance law. The Contractor 
indemnifies the Contracting Authority against any liability in this connection. The 
limitation of liability referred to in paragraph 3 does not apply.
 
 
Article 22 Cancellation and notice of termination 
 
22.1 Without prejudice to the other provisions of the Contract, either Party may 
cancel the Contract in full or in part by registered letter, without recourse to the 
courts, if the other Party is in default or compliance is permanently or temporarily 
impossible, unless the breach does not warrant cancellation in view of its 
exceptional nature or limited importance.  
 
22.2 If one of the Parties is unable to discharge its obligations under the Contract as 
a result of force majeure, the other Party is entitled to cancel the Contract, 
subject to a reasonable period, in full or in part out of court by registered mail, 
without its action creating any entitlement to compensation, but no earlier than 
15 Working Days as from the date on which the circumstance that produced the 
force majeure arose. 
 
22.3 The term ‘force majeure’ is in any event understood not to include: staff 
shortages, strikes, staff illness, shortages of raw materials, transport problems, 
late delivery or the unsuitability of items required for the performance of the 
work, liquidity or solvency problems on the part of the Contractor or failures on 
the part of third parties engaged by the Contractor. 
 
22.4 The Contracting Authority may cancel the Contract forthwith out of court by 
registered mail, without being required to send any demand or notice of default, 
if the Contractor applies for or is granted a provisional or definitive suspension of 
payments, files for bankruptcy, is declared bankrupt, if its business is wound up, 
if it ceases trading, if a substantial proportion of its assets are seized, if it 
AVT18/BZ125884C 11  
undergoes a merger or a division or is dissolved, or if it is deemed on any other 
grounds to be no longer capable of discharging its obligations under the 
Contract. 
 
22.5 If the Contract is cancelled, the Contractor will repay any undue amounts 
already paid by the Contracting Authority, plus the statutory interest on those 
amounts from the date on which they were paid. If the Contract is partially 
cancelled, the Contractor only has to repay payments relating to the part of the 
contract that has been cancelled. 
 
22.6 In addition, the Contracting Authority may terminate the Contract at any time by 
giving notice of termination by registered mail. In such an event, the account 
between the Contracting Authority and the Contractor will be settled on the basis 
of the Services provided and costs reasonably incurred by the Contractor in 
carrying out the assignment in question and of any commitments reasonably 
entered into for the future for the purposes of the present Contract. The 
Contracting Authority is not obliged to compensate the Contractor in any way for 
the consequences of the termination of the Contract.
 
 
Article 23 Retention of right to demand performance 
 
The fact that one of the Parties omits to demand the performance of any provision of 
the Contract within a time limit set by the Contract does not affect its right to demand 
performance at a later date, unless the Party in question has expressly agreed to the 
non-performance in writing. 
 
 
VI MISCELLANEOUS
 
 
Article 24 Intellectual property rights 
 
24.1 Unless agreed otherwise, all copyrights that may be exercised in relation to the 
results of the Services performed by the Contractor accrue to the Contracting 
Authority, irrespective of where and when they may be exercised. Pursuant to 
the Contract, the Contractor assigns such intellectual property rights to the 
Contracting Authority as soon as they arise. The Contracting Authority hereby 
accepts the assignment of these rights. 
  
24.2 All database rights that may be exercised in relation to the results of the 
Services performed by the Contractor accrue to the Contracting Authority, 
irrespective of where and when they may be exercised. Pursuant to the 
Contract, the Contractor assigns such intellectual property rights to the 
Contracting Authority as soon as they arise. The Contracting Authority hereby 
accepts the assignment of these rights 
 
24.3 In so far as the results of the Services performed are achieved partly or wholly 
using existing intellectual property rights that do not accrue to the Contracting 
Authority, the Contractor grants the Contracting Authority a non-exclusive and 
irrevocable right of use for an indefinite period. In such an event, the Contractor 
guarantees that it is entitled to grant the aforesaid right of use. 
AVT18/BZ125884C 12  
24.4 In so far as a separate instrument needs to be executed for the assignment of 
the rights referred to in articles 24.1 and 24.2, the Contractor hereby irrevocably 
authorises the Contracting Authority to draft such an instrument and sign it on 
the Contractor’s behalf, without prejudice to the Contractor’s obligation to 
cooperate with the assignment of these rights as soon as the Contracting 
Authority requests it to do so, without attaching any conditions to its cooperation.  
 
24.5 If there is a difference of opinion between the Parties on the intellectual property 
rights referred to in articles 24.1 and 24.2, in relation to the results of the 
Services performed, it will be assumed, in the absence of proof to the contrary, 
that the rights accrue to the Contracting Authority. In all cases, the Contracting 
Authority may continue to use the results for the purposes specified in the 
Contract. 
 
24.6 The Contractor hereby renounces vis-à-vis the Contracting Authority any moral 
rights vested in it, i.e. the Contractor, as referred to in the Copyright Act, in so far 
as the relevant regulations allow it to do so. Acting both in its own capacity and 
on behalf of the Contractor’s Staff, and as authorised to this end, the Contractor 
renounces vis-à-vis the Contracting Authority any moral rights vested in these 
staff, in so far as the relevant regulations allow it to do so. 
 
24.7 The Contractor indemnifies the Contracting Authority against all claims brought 
by third parties in respect of any breach of their intellectual property rights, 
including equivalent claims relating to knowledge, unlawful competition and 
suchlike. The Contractor is obliged to take any action that may help to prevent 
stagnation and to limit the additional costs and/or damage incurred as a result of 
such breaches, and to do so at its own expense. 
 
24.8 Without prejudice to the above provisions, the Contracting Authority may, if a 
third party holds the Contractor liable for a breach of its intellectual property 
rights, cancel the Contract in writing, in full or in part, out of court, without 
prejudice to its other rights vis-à-vis the Contractor, such to include but not 
limited to any right to compensation. The Contracting Authority will not exercise 
its right to cancel the Contract until it has first consulted the Contractor.  
 
24.9 Intellectual property rights arising from the Services performed other than those 
referred to in articles 24.1 and 24.2 may never be exercised against the 
Contracting Authority, and the Contractor assigns to the Contracting Authority a 
non-exclusive and irrevocable right to use such rights, free of charge, for an 
indefinite period for the purposes of the Contract’s objectives.
 
 
Article 25 Assignment of rights and obligations under the Contract 
 
25.1 The Parties may not transfer their rights and obligations under the Contract to 
third parties without the consent of the other Party. The other Party will not 
withhold its consent without good reason. The Parties may attach conditions. 
 
25.2 Paragraph 1 does not apply to the establishment of limited rights, such as a 
right of pledge. 
 
AVT18/BZ125884C 13  
Article 26 Insurance 
 
26.1 The Contractor has taken out and will retain adequate and customary insurance 
cover in accordance with generally accepted standards in respect of the 
following risks: 
a. professional liability, i.e. the risks arising from Professional Errors; 
b. business liability, including liability for damage caused to persons or the 
Contracting Authority’s property; 
c. loss of or damage to business property (including as a result of fire or theft), 
including items of property owned by the Contracting Authority. 
 
26.2 At the Contracting Authority’s request, the Contractor will immediately present 
either the original or certified copies of the policies and proof of the payment of 
premium for the insurances referred to in paragraph 1 or a statement from the 
insurer to the effect that these policies exist and the premium has been paid. 
The insurance premiums owed by the Contractor are deemed to be included in 
the agreed prices and fees. 
 
Article 27 Employment conditions 
 
27.1 In performing the Services, the Contractor will comply with the applicable 
legislation on employment conditions and with the collective labour agreement 
applicable to it and its staff. 
 
27.2  The Contractor will record all agreements on employment conditions made for 
the purpose of the performance of the Contract in a clear and accessible 
manner. 
 
27.3 Upon request, the Contractor will immediately grant competent authorities 
access to these agreements on employment conditions and cooperate with any 
inspections, audits or salary validations. 
 
27.4 Upon request, the Contractor will immediately grant the Contracting Authority 
access to the agreements on employment conditions referred to in paragraph 2 
if the Contracting Authority considers this necessary to prevent or deal with a 
salary claim concerning work carried out for the purpose of the performance of 
the Contract. 
 
27.5 The Contractor will impose the obligations arising from the previous paragraphs 
in full on all parties with which it enters into contracts for the purpose of the 
performance of the Contract and will also stipulate that these parties impose 
these obligations in full on all parties with which they, in turn, enter into contracts 
for the purpose of the performance of the Contract. 
 
Article 28 Bribery and conflict of interests 
 
28.1 The Parties will not offer to each other or to third parties, or ask for, accept or 
obtain a promise of, from each other or third parties, whether for themselves or 
for any other party, any gift, reward, compensation or benefit of any form 
whatsoever if this could be construed as constituting an illicit practice. Such a 
AVT18/BZ125884C 14  
practice may constitute grounds for cancelling the Contract either in full or in 
part.  
 
28.2 Should it transpire that a member of the Contracting Authority’s Staff is also in 
the Contractor’s employment, regardless of whether or not such employment is 
paid, or was in the Contractor’s employment at the time when negotiations took 
place on the formation of the Contract, and that the Contracting Authority was 
not informed of this prior to the signing of the Contract, the Contracting Authority 
may cancel the Contract with immediate effect, without being required to give 
any notice of default or to pay any compensation. 
 
Article 29 Invalidity 
 
If one or more provisions of the Terms and Conditions or the Contract are found to be 
invalid or are nullified by a court of law, the remaining provisions will retain their legal 
force. The Parties will consult on the former provisions in order to make an alternative 
arrangement. The alternative arrangement must not undermine the purpose and the 
purport of the Terms and Conditions or the Contract. 
 
Article 30 Follow-up order 
 
The Contract does not entitle the Contractor to any follow-up orders. 
 
Article 31 Publicity 
 
The Contractor may not refer to the Contract either implicitly or explicitly in publications 
(including press releases) or advertisements and may use the Contracting Authority’s 
name as a reference only with the Contracting Authority’s consent. 
 
Article 32 Long-term provisions 
 
Provisions which by their nature are intended to persist after the Contract has been 
performed will remain in force after the expiry of the Contract. These obligations 
include in any event the provisions on guarantees (article 3), liability (article 21), 
intellectual property rights (article 24), confidentiality (article 13), and disputes and 
applicable law (article 33).
 
 
Article 33 Disputes and applicable law  
 
33.1 Any dispute between the Parties in relation to the Contract will be submitted only 
to the competent court in the district of The Hague, unless the Parties agree on 
an alternative means of settlement at the time a dispute arises. 
 
33.2 The Contract is governed by Dutch law.

=== Document: vs125e_20220309_rvo_qes_qew_annex 7_non-disclosure agreement ===
1 van 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-Disclosure Agreement 
 
 
 
 
The undersigned 
  
   
 
 Is involved in providing expert support to RVO in managing the site studies for   
 
 ______________________________________________________________ 
 
• is aware that equal treatment is one of the principles of the procurement process for the above 
mentioned site studies, and that it is therefore important that all of the – potential – bidders are 
treated in the same way and receive the same information, 
 
• is aware that all information provided by RVO or obtained during the Work is considered to be 
confidential, and observes article 6.3 of the Contract Expert Support ……………. 
 
• and therefore states without reservation: 
 
• to observe strict confidentiality with respect to all non-public OR unpublished information that 
Contractor, subcontractor and its personnel acquire within the scope of this assignment; 
 
• not to make any improper use of the information provided in confidentiality and/or non-public 
information and not to use this information in one’s own interest or that of a third party, 
 
• not to have any contact in the course of a procurement procedure with potential bidders regarding 
the contents or the procurement procedure, 
 
• to exercise the greatest possible care with respect to the confidentiality, 
 
• not to have any contact during the procurement procedure or during the execution of the above 
mentioned site studies with third parties regarding the information provided, unless this occurs at 
the request of the Contracting Authority e.g. at consultation meetings organized by RVO.  
 
 
 
 
 
Place:         Date: 
 
Name:   
 
 
Signature:

=== Document: vs125e_20220309_rvo_qes_qew_annex 6-i-contract_f.03 ===
Service agreement 202112088 Expert Support developing Areas for Offshore Wind  
 
1 
Public service contract (ARVODI 2018) for expert support to the Netherlands Enterprise 
Agency in developing Areas for Offshore Wind, lot 1 or lot 2 
Contract number:  202112088 / WOZ2210286 
 
The undersigned: 
 
1. The State of the Netherlands, which has its seat in The Hague,  
represented by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Climate Policy, 
legally represented in this matter by Barto Piersma, Director of National Programmes of the 
Netherlands Enterprise Agency,  
hereinafter referred to as the Contracting Authority, 
 
and 
 
2. [Contractor’s full name and legal form],  
which has its registered office in …, legally represented in this matter by 
... [and ...] [signatory’s name], hereinafter referred to as the Contractor, 
 
WHEREAS: 
 
– The Contracting Authority wishes, in relation to the execution of Work for expert support to 
the Netherlands Enterprise Agency in developing Areas for Offshore Wind lot 1 or lot 2 to 
agree fixed terms for a certain period with one Contractor; 
– The Contracting Authority has conducted an EU tender procedure for the selection of a 
 party to this Agreement on the basis of the Tender Document and subject to the Public 
 Procurement Act 2012; 
– The Contractor submitted a tender on [day month year]; 
– The Contracting Authority has awarded the contract to the Contractor based on this tender; 
– The Contractor has sufficiently familiarised itself with what the Contracting Authority wishes 
to achieve; 
– The Parties wish to lay down the ensuing legal relationship in a written Contract; 
 
AGREE AS FOLLOWS:  
 
A number of terms in this Contract are written with initial capitals. The meanings of these terms 
are defined in article 1 of the General Government Terms and Conditions for Public Service 
Contracts 2018 (ARVODI 2018). 
 
1. Object of the Contract 
 
1.1 The Contracting Authority hereby commissions the Contractor to develop an integrated 
Ground Model and make a Geotechnical Interpretative Report as described in the quotation 
submitted by the Contractor on [date], based on the Tender Document issued by the 
Contracting Authority on [date] (ref. 202112088), in so far as this Contract does not 
contain any provisions to the contrary. The Contractor hereby agrees to perform these 
Services. 
 
1.2 The following documents are an integral part of this Contract. In the event of 
inconsistencies, a higher ranked document takes precedence over a lower ranked 
document: 
 1.  this document; 
2.  the Memorandums of Information;  
 3.  the Tender Document including the Annexes    
 4.  the ARVODI 2018;  
5.  the tender issued by the Contractor to the Contracting Authority. 
 
 
 
 
Service agreement 202112088 Expert Support developing Areas for Offshore Wind  
 
2 
2. Formation and duration of the Contract 
 
2.1 The agreed Services will be performed in the period from xx.xx 2022 to December 31, 
2026.  
 
3. Price and other financial provisions 
 
 
3.1 The Contractor will invoice retrospectively, based on the number of hours per month 
actually worked and a the daily hourly rates of  
€…  for a Senior expert 
 €…  for a Medior expert 
 €…  for a Junior  expert 
 (excluding VAT and including travel, accommodation and any other costs).  
 
3.2 It is expressly agreed that if the Contractor does not charge VAT but some or all of the 
Services are not exempt from VAT, the Contracting Authority will not be liable to pay the 
VAT in question. 
 
3.3 The fee covers all Services to be performed by the Contractor under this Contract, plus any 
materials needed for this purpose. International travel costs will be reimbursed (economy 
class). Other costs (when travelling abroad) can be reimbursed to a maximum of the EC 
per diem rates. 
 
3.4 Payment will be made once the results of the Services have been accepted. 
 
3.6 Contractor must submit invoices electronically in the manner prescribed in the tender 
document. Invoices can be sent every month based on the actual hours worked.  
 The following reference number should be stated on the invoices: WOZxxxx 
 
 
 
4. Contacts / project managers 
 
4.1 The Contracting Authority’s contact is …...  
The Contractor’s contact is. 
 
4.2 Notwithstanding the provisions of article 10.2 of the ARVODI 2018, the contacts named 
above cannot make legally binding agreements on the Parties’ behalf. 
 
5. Time and place 
 
5.1       In principle, the Services will be performed at the Contractor’s offices. 
 
6. Other Terms and Conditions 
 
6.1 This Contract is governed exclusively by the General Government Terms and Conditions for 
Public Service Contracts 2018 (ARVODI 2018) [(see Schedule ...)], [of which the Parties 
have already received a copy,] in so far as this Contract does not contain any provisions to 
the contrary. Any general and special terms and conditions drawn up by the Contractor do 
not apply to this Contract. 
 
6.2  <OPTIONAL> Notwithstanding the provisions of article … of the ARVODI 2018, the 
following provision applies to ...: ....... 
 
6.3  If the duty of confidentiality imposed on the Contractor and its Staff under article 13 of the 
ARVODI 2018 is breached, the Contractor will be liable to pay the Contracting Authority a 
penalty of € 15,000,--per event. 
 
 
Service agreement 202112088 Expert Support developing Areas for Offshore Wind  
 
3 
6.4  Contractor will ensure that no situation arises during the execution of the agreement that 
entails a possible conflict of interest as described in paragraph 3.5 of the tender document. 
The Contractor will take all necessary measures to this end. 
 
6.5  Article 19 of the ARVODI 2018 does not apply. 
 
6.6  In addition to article 21 of the ARVODI 2018, the Contractor indemnifies the Contracting 
Authority against any claims for damages brought by third parties as a result of its failure 
to discharge its obligations as referred to in article 21.3 of the ARVODI 2018. The liability 
amounts set out in article 21.3 of the ARVODI 2018 apply mutatis mutandis. 
 
7. User rights 
 
7.1  Article 24.3 will be changed as follows: 
In so far as the results of the Services performed are achieved partly or wholly using 
existing intellectual property rights that do not accrue to the Contracting Authority, such as 
intellectual property including but not limited to know-how and databases, and any rights 
thereto {either registered or not} in existence prior to this Contract, the Contractor grants 
the Contracting Authority a non-exclusive and irrevocable right of use for an indefinite 
period. In such an event, the Contractor guarantees that it is entitled to grant the aforesaid 
right of use. 
 
7.2  In addition to 24.3 of the ARVODI 2016 the Contractor grants the Contracting Authority a 
non-exclusive, irrevocable right for an indefinite period to publish or reproduce the results 
of the Services, or have them published or reproduced, which right the Contracting 
Authority accepts, such in the widest sense, regardless of the method of use or 
reproduction and regardless of whether such use or method of reproduction is known when 
this Contract is signed. 
 
8. Declaration of integrity 
 
The Contractor hereby declares that it has not offered or given members of the Contracting 
Authority’s Staff any benefit in order to obtain the contract nor arranged for them to be 
offered or given any such benefit. It undertakes not to do so in the future with a view to 
inducing any members of the Contracting Authority’s Staff to perform or refrain from 
performing any act. 
 
9. Final provisions 
 
9.1 Any derogations from this Contract are binding only if they have been expressly agreed by 
the Parties in writing. 
 
9.2 Any written or oral agreements previously made by the Parties about the Services that are 
the object of this Contract are nullified by the signature of this Contract. 
 
Done on the later of the two dates stated below and signed in duplicate. 
 
The Hague, [date] … .........   [place, date] …….. .........  
 
For the Minister of Economic Affairs   For [Contractor’s name] 
and Climate Policy, and commissioned by 
Barto Piersma, Director of National  
Programmes of the Netherlands Enterprise 
Agency: 
 
 
 
 
 
Service agreement 202112088 Expert Support developing Areas for Offshore Wind  
 
4 
 
Jan van Putten    [signatory’s name] 
Team Manager Procurement Office    [signatory’s position 
 
 
 
 
 
Schedules: 
-  Memorandum of Information; 
-  Tender Document including the Annexes; 
-  ARVODI 2018; 
-  Tender issued by the Contractor

=== Document: vs125e_20220309_rvo_qes_qew_annex 5b sow windwater expert support_f.02 ===
Date 3/11/2022 
Status Final 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Site Studies – Various Sites 
 
Expert support Wind & Water 
 
Annex 5b  
 
Scope of Work 
 
  
 
 Page 2 of 17 
 
Colophon 
Project name Expert support IJmuiden Ver Wind Farm Zone (IJVWFZ) 
Project number WOZ 
Version Final 
File name NA125E_04022022_RVO_QEW_Annex 5b SoW WindWater Expert 
Support_F.03 
Project manager  
Contact   
  
Annex(es)  
Author M. Vrolijk, S. Wezenberg 
Reviewed Matte Brijder 
Approved XXX 
 
 
  
 
 Page 3 of 17 
 
Contents 
 
Introduction .......................................................................................................... 4 
1. Project set-up ................................................................................................. 9 
2. Roles and Responsibilities ............................................................................... 11 
3. Schedule Key Dates upcoming W&W studies ..................................................... 15 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 Page 4 of 17 
 
Introduction  
Scope document 
This document details the Scope of Work (SoW) to provide RVO with Wind & Water 
(W&W) expert support services for a number of sites.  
 
Background 
The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate Policy is responsible for the legislative 
framework for the development of offshore wind farms in the Netherlands. Within this 
framework (a) (concession) tender(s) for construction and operation of (a) wind farm(s) 
will be organized. As part of the tender documentation, the participants will receive an 
information package in which detailed information on the offshore site is included. 
Detailed information about soil and wind & water conditions at the site will be part of this 
information package. The Contracting Authority for this assignment is the Netherlands 
Enterprise Agency (Rijksdienst voor Ondernemend Nederland - RVO). 
 
Objective 
RVO has been requested to prepare and collect all site data required for commercial 
developers to prepare a competitive bid. In order to achieve the highest results from the 
site investigations, RVO intends to contract high quality experts who can support RVO in 
managing the site investigations. The objective of this tender is conclude an agreement 
with Tenderers who can support RVO on the different site investigations regarding 
contracting, quality control and operational support.  
 
RVO is looking for an expert support Contractor who can support RVO with managing the 
site investigations for potential future wind farm sites / zones, and who is able to support 
RVO with managing the interfaces between different site investigations.  
 
RVO is specifically looking for expertise in the field of soil investigations (Lot 1) and wind 
& water investigations (Lot 2). 
 
This SoW is in relation to Lot 2: providing expert support services for W&W 
investigations.  
 
Site Description 
There are multiple  W&W site studies ongoing  and a large number of studies , such as 
Metocean Campaign (MC) and Metocean Assessment (MA), will be initiated in the upcoming 
future. The order in which the different W&W studies will be initiated is still being discussed 
with The Ministry of Economic Affairs  and Climate policy , although a general outline is 
anticipated.  
 
As such, the potential sites, contractor(s) will provide expert support for are the following 
Various Sites (but not limited to): 
• VS1; 
• VS2 
o (potential shift possible from VS2 to another VS). 
• VS5; 
• VSDS 
 
The expert services will not consider the full characterisation of all the listed areas but will 
contain a selection of works. This selection can be adjusted during the  course of the 
execution of the WORK to the needs and priorities as set by the Contracting Authority.  
 
 
  
 
 Page 5 of 17 
 
In the section you will find some information about the four (4) sites.  
 
Various site 1 (VS1) 
VS1 is located in the west of the Dutch Shelf in the North Sea. A shipping corridor is planned 
to divide the wind farm zone in 2 areas. In total it is expected that this site can 
accommodate a maximum of 6 GW of offshore wind divided over multiple sites. F igure 1 
below presents the location VS1.  
 
 
Figure 1: Location VS1. 
Various site 2 (VS2) 
VS2 is located in the North -West of the Netherlands. The site is located north of the 
IJmuiden Ver Wind Farm Zone. In total it is expected that this site can accommodate a 
maximum of 4 GW of offshore wind divided over multiple sites. Figure 2 below presents the 
location VS2.  
 
 
Figure 2: Location VS2. 
Various Site 5 (VS5)  
VS5 is located to the North -East border of the Dutch shelf of the North Sea. The site are 
located North-West of the Ten noorden van de Waddeneilanden Wind Farm Zone. In total 
it is expected that this site can accommodate a maximum of 6 GW of offshore wind divided 
over multiple sites. Figure 3 below presents the location VS5.  
 

 
  
 
 Page 6 of 17 
 
 
Figure 3: Location VS5 
Various Site - Demonstration site (VSDS) 
As part of the Energy transition to renewable energy there is an intention to set-up a 
demonstration site (VSDS) for the purpose of innovation and demonstration in offshore 
wind development. Expectations are that the VSDS will be suitable for a maximum of 500 
MW of offshore wind. Site characterisation shall be performed to reduce the risks for 
developers participating in the tender. The tender details (planning) and location of the 
site are not yet defined. Site characterisation will be adjusted to suit the tender planning 
when this becomes available.   
 
The Expert support WORKS can be conducted (but not limited) to the sites described 
above. The content of the WORKS and the required expertise is detailed in the Scope of 
Work section below.    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 
  
 
 Page 7 of 17 
 
Scope of Work 
 
The Contracting Authority intends to conclude the contract with one contractor for Lot 2.  
 
For the wind & water investigations of the future sites, the following expertise is requested 
from the expert support:  
1. Expertise in Metocean measuring campaigns (MC).  
2. Expertise performing duties as Offshore Client representatives during MCs.  
3. Expertise in Metocean assessment (Metocean Assessment - MA is a combination of 
the Metocean desk study, database and Wind Resource Assessment - WRA). 
 
The SoW is to provide RVO with 10.000 hours of expert support.  
 
Main scope: 10.000 hours are specified for predetermined areas and investigations.  
 
Optional scope:  1.000 hours of expert support. The 1.000-hour scope is non-specified 
for predetermined areas or - investigations. RVO would like to use the 1.000 hours of 
expert support for a wide array of investigations/enquiries, which have yet to be 
determined. During the contract RVO might need support with a new study or help with a 
new tender for a new selected (demonstration) site. As such, RVO wishes to reserve the 
right to use the optional hours with some degree of flexibility. Using them for sites and 
studies not listed/specified in this SoW though related to wind and water investigations. 
The optional scope might be used (in part) by RVO, but might also not used. The use of 
the optional scope is to the discretion of RVO. 
 
Various sites in SOW 
In this document reference is made to Various sites (VS) for the Metocean campaign (MC) 
and the Metocean Assessment (MA). Site investigations and studies focus on the VS. 
 
The various sites (VS) included into this SoW for W&W expert support are: 
• VS1 
• VS2 (Potential shift from VS2 to other VS); 
• VS5; 
• VSDS  
 
The SoW has been subdivided into the following works: 
 
1). Providing expert support for 4 MCs: 
• VS1 
• VS2 (potential shift from VS2 to other VS possible);  
• VS5; 
• VSDS. 
 
Task of expert support for the Metocean campaign for VS1, VS2, VS5 en VSDS: review 
data (monthly review and yearly review) and review of project documentation for buoy 
deployment/recovery. 
 
2). Providing offshore client representatives (OCR) during 4 MCs: 
• VS1 
• VS2 
• VS5 
• VSDS 
 
Task of OCRS include (but are not limited to): buoy deployment, overseeing buoy 
modification (at location), buoy exchange and buoy recovery. 
 
 
  
 
 Page 8 of 17 
 
3). Providing expert support for 4 MAs: 
• VS1 
• VS2 (potential shift of VS2 to other VS). 
• VS5  
• VSDS. 
 
Task of expert support for the Metocean assessment of VS1, VS2, VS5 and VSDS: 
Creating tender documents, assisting with the MoI, Evaluation of proposals, Examination 
and verification contractor work.  
 
4). Optional scope:  
• 1000 Hours that are reserved for support for new unforeseen developments, like 
helping with a tender or support for a wind and water study for a new wind farm 
 
The schedules for the upcoming W&W studies are presented in Table 3, chapter 3. 
 
This scope of work is divided in 3 sections; 
1. Project set-up 
2. Roles and responsibilities; 
3. Schedule and key dates. 
  
 
  
 
 Page 9 of 17 
 
1. Project set-up  
The W&W package in Lot 2 will contain the site characterisation studies as indicated by the 
red outline in Figure 4.  
 
General e xpert support will consist of supporting RVO with selecting a  contractors, 
assessing study/campaign plans and quality assurance in relation to reporting and provided 
deliverables (data/reports) for the separate parts of the W&W site studies. 
 
Included in the Wind and Water studies are the MC and  the MA. T he latter being a 
combination of the Metocean desk study , the wind resource assessment and 
creation/verification of the metocean data-base. 
 
The contractor providing expert support will also deliver a lead expert (see roles and 
responsibilities) managing the interfaces between the different studies and the different 
site study Contractors.  
 
 
Figure 4 Wind and Water site characterisation package 
RVO will manage the wind and water site characterisation for the different sites, hereafter 
called PROJECT . Expert support will be required to assist the RVO team with in -depth 
knowledge. 
 
To visualise the PROJECT team set up an organization chart is presented in Figure 5.  
 

 
  
 
 Page 10 of 17 
 
 
Figure 5: Organisation chart W&W studies 
Items marked in red are presenting the areas where in-depth knowledge support by 
external experts is requested by means of this SOW.  
 
The PROJECT organisation will be built under supervision of a package manager from 
RVO. The package manager will be responsible for interfaces between studies, overall 
planning and overall budget.   
 
In addition to the package manager from RVO there will be multiple RVO project 
managers assigned to the PROJECT to manage the individual studies. A single RVO 
project manager can be assigned to multiple studies and can be adjusted during the 
PROJECT. 
 
The expert support Contractor is expected to supply lead expert(s) and specialists in the 
sectors as presented in Figure 5. The lead expert will need overall knowledge to 
participate into the different studies and to advise the RVO package manager where 
necessary. The main task of the lead expert will consist of interfacing between the 
studies. For in-depth discussions, reviews and support through the PROJECT the lead 
expert (and the RVO project managers) can call in the specialist experts. For detailed 
roles and responsibilities of the requested expert support reference is made to section 2 
of this SOW. 
 
Aim of the project set up as described is to optimize the interfaces and optimise the use 
of the specialist knowledge. 
 
During the execution of the PROJECT all the communication between the different parties 
as described above and site study Contractors will be managed by the RVO project 
manager. The communication lines are visualised Figure 6. 
 
RVO - Wind and Water Package
Package Manager
Metocean 
measuring campaign 
RVO Project 
manager 
Contractor
Project team
Expert Support
Offshore Repl
Expert support 
Specialist
Metocean desk 
study
RVO Project 
manager
Contractor
Project team
Expert support
Specialist
Wind Resource 
Assessment 
RVO Project 
manager 
Contractor
Project team
Expert support
Specialist
Expert Support
Lead Expert 
 
  
 
 Page 11 of 17 
 
 
Figure 6: Communication lines 
    
Note: If required during the PROJECT direct communication lines can be established 
between the Experts and site study Contractors upon discretion of the RVO project 
manager(s).    
2. Roles and Responsibilities  
This section describes the roles and responsibilities for the expert support during the 
PROJECT. 
 
Table 1: Hours for the main and optional Scope of Work, divided per required expertise.. 
Role Hours main scope 
(10.000 hours) 
Hours optional  
scope (1000 hours) 
Lead expert 1500 
1000 
Specialist Expert Metocean 
measuring campaign 4500 
Client representatives 1000 
Specialist Expert Metocean desk 
study and database 3000 
Total amount 11.000 
 
Lead expert (1500 hours in main scope)  
This expert must have knowledge in Metocean desk studies, MCs and WRAs. The lead 
expert will be the interface during progress meeting with RVO and the site study 
Contractors. The lead expert shall be capable to participate during the calls as 
representative of all specialist experts. The lead expert should be able to answer 
questions related to the studies or be able to capture the essence and transfer them to 
the experts to arrange follow up.  
 
To improve interfaces and consistency it is important that a single lead expert will 
supervise and participate in all studies together with the RVO project managers.  
 
If required a deputy (temporary) lead expert can be assigned to support the lead expert 
during absence or when workload requires.  
RVO 
Project 
Manager 
RVO 
Package 
manager 
Study 
Contractors
Lead 
Expert
Experts
 
  
 
 Page 12 of 17 
 
 
Required know-how; the lead expert will need to have general knowledge regarding MCs 
and WRAs within of the North Sea. For detailed in-depth knowledge the lead expert can 
consult the specialist experts in the team, but the lead expert will need the following 
required know-how; 
 
a. Project management and interface skills; 
b. The general meteorological and oceanographic conditions preferably in the North 
Sea; 
c. State of the art methods and equipment for metocean data acquisition by using 
LiDAR based measuring systems; 
d. Insight in the metocean data required for wind farm engineering design and 
planning of vessel operations; 
e. Assessing data of MCs (meteorology, physics). 
 
Activities and responsibilities (but not limited to) 
• Participate in meetings related to Wind resource assessment, MCs, Metocean desk 
study and offshore operations; 
• Help define strategy for future MCs and MAs and preparation of associated 
procurement documents; 
• During the meetings it is expected that the lead expert can represent the expert 
group and participate in discussions;  
• Manage interfaces between studies, experts and RVO; 
• The lead expert will have to share information between the teams so that  all 
experts have all the required information. When questions arise the lead expert 
will arrange follow up with the correct party;  
• Quality assurance and quality control;  
• Participate in webinars; 
• Drafting the scope of work for contractors to execute the studies; 
• Assessing the contractor’s bids.  
 
Expert support contractors are requested to offer one senior expert for the lead expert 
position. Additional experts offered will be assessed as back-up experts.   
 
Specialist Expert Metocean measuring campaign (4,500 hours in main 
scope) 
RVO is considering to contract site study Contractor(s) to execute MCs for the VS with 
multiple floating LiDAR systems. The datasets will (generally) cover monthly periods and 
a 24-months period. Reports with the floating LiDAR data are delivered regularly 
(monthly) and at the end of the reporting period. 
 
The expert(s) must have experience in acquiring metocean data for offshore wind farms, 
preferably in the North Sea. 
 
Required know-how: 
a. The meteorological and oceanographic conditions in the North Sea; 
b. State of the art methods and equipment for metocean data acquisition by 
using LiDAR based measuring systems; 
c. Insight in the metocean data required for wind farm engineering design 
and planning of vessel operations; 
d. Assessing and interpretation of data of metocean measuring campaigns 
(meteorology, physics). 
 
Activities (but not limited to): 
 
  
 
 Page 13 of 17 
 
• Help define strategy for future MCs and MAs and preparation of 
associated procurement documents; 
• Support in managing the MC: check the planning, assist in document 
control (including check on required actions from progress meetings); 
• Review of data and (validation) reports (certification) of the deployed 
metocean systems;  
• Quality assurance and quality control including providing a Statement of 
Compliance as a quality certificate that the metocean data is in 
conformance with industry standards and fir for purpose, after review of 
the data and data (validation) reports; 
• Attend progress meetings with the MC contractor; 
• Disclosure of information to the market (publication at 
offshorewind.rvo.nl, contribution to the project and site description, 
market questions, webinars, etc.). 
 
Expert contractors are requested to offer four available experts. Three of them should be 
senior experts and one should be a medior or junior expert. Additional experts offered will 
be assessed as back-up experts.   
 
Offshore Client representatives (1000 hours in main scope) 
The offshore experts must have a training as Client REP, understanding of contract law, 
project documentation and HSE with a valid BOSIET and medical (or equal) as minimum. 
 
Required know-how: 
a. Method Statements for deploying / recovering / lifting / towing 
buoys/platforms; 
b. State of the art methods and equipment for metocean data acquisition by 
using LiDAR based measuring systems. 
 
Activities (but not limited to): 
• Review of Method Statements, Operational reports and other 
documentation from the MC Contractor; 
• Attending kick-off meetings at locations before operations for deployment 
or recovery of buoys; 
• Presence as Client Representative during offshore operations for 
maintenance, deployment, recovery or inspections or other of the 
metocean buoy(s); 
• Reporting on the operations. 
 
The offshore operations are usually planned at short notice and are single day work 
executed with small vessels. Expert contractors are requested to offer three available 
senior experts. Additional experts offered will be assessed as back-up experts.  
 
Specialist Expert Metocean assessment (3000 hours in main scope)  
The purpose of the metocean assessment (MA) is to provide the meteorological and 
oceanographic (metocean) conditions for business case calculations and to serve as input 
for the design, installation and maintenance of wind turbines, inter array cables, 
substations and their support structures at planned Wind Farm Zones.  
 
The analysis is based on the best available data sources, to be carried out with state-of-
the-art methods. The results (i.e. tables, graphs) will be made available through reports 
and a digital metocean database that will enable obtaining output at any requested (x, y) 
location within the site boundaries.  
 
 
  
 
 Page 14 of 17 
 
The Wind Resource Assessment component of the MA shall provide data that can be used as 
an input by potential wind farm developers for future wind farm modelling, energy yield 
assessments and business case calculations for the offshore wind farm to be developed. 
 
Required know-how: 
a. Assessing and interpreting data and wind resources of metocean 
measuring campaigns (meteorology, physics); 
b. Assessing the wind climate of the North Sea; 
c. Wave and current modelling and maximum wind and wave conditions and 
extreme value analysis; 
d. Insight in the metocean data required for wind farm engineering design; 
e. Preferably know how of (floating) LiDAR based measurements and 
resource assessments. 
 
Activities (but not limited to): 
• Updating and preparing the procurement documents for the metocean 
assessment tender; 
• Help define strategy for future MCs and MAs and preparation of 
associated procurement documents; 
• Review and evaluate proposals of the metocean assessment tender; 
• Technical support in the execution of the metocean assessment and 
database by the Contractor;  
• Review of the (draft) reports of the metocean assessment; 
• Disclosure of information to the market (publication at 
offshorewind.rvo.nl, contribution to the project and site description, 
market questions, webinars, etc.). 
 
Expert contractors are requested to offer four available experts. Three of them should be 
a senior experts and one should be a medior or junior expert . Additional experts offered 
will be assessed as back-up experts.   
 
Table 2: required experts for Scope of Work 
Role Senior expert Medior/junior expert 
Lead expert 1 - 
MC expert 3 1 
Offshore Client 
representatives 
3 - 
Metocean experts 3 1 
 
It should be clear in the project plan who the above mentioned main experts per position 
are and which experts are offered as back-up per position. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 Page 15 of 17 
 
3. Schedule Key Dates upcoming W&W studies 
 
Table 3: Schedule and interfaces related to the delivery of the Metocean campaign, offshore client representatives and Metocean Assessments. 
Metocean 
Campaign 
(MC)/Metocean 
Assessment (MA) 
Estimated Schedule for 
delivery (estimated) 
Various Site   Task included in SoW  
Providing expert support for Metocean Campaign 
MC June 2022 VS1  Review data (monthly review) 
MC Q3 2023 VS1 Review data (yearly review) 
MC Q3 2023 VS1 Review project documentation for buoy deployment/recovery 
MC Q1 2023 VS2 Review data (monthly review) 
MC Q1 2024 VS2 Review data (yearly review) 
MC Q3 2022 VS5 Review project documentation for buoy deployment/recovery 
MC Q1 2023 VS5 Review data (monthly review) 
MC Q1 2024 VS5 Review data (yearly review) 
MC Q1 2024 VS5 Review project documentation for buoy deployment/recovery 
MC Q4 2022 VSDS Review data (monthly review) 
MC Q4 2023 VSDS Review data (yearly review) 
MC Q4 2023 VSDS Review project documentation for buoy deployment/recovery 
Providing Client Representatives 
MC Q2-Q3 2022 VS1 Buoy deployment, modification, exchange and recovery 
MC Q1 2023 VS2 Buoy deployment, modification, exchange and recovery 
MC Q1 2023 VS5 Buoy deployment, modification, exchange and recovery 
MC Q4 2022 VSDS Buoy deployment, modification, exchange and recovery 
Providing expert support for Metocean Assessment 
MA Q2 2022 VS1  Creating tender documents 
MA Q3 2022 VS1  Assisting with MoI 
MA Q3 2022 VS1  Evaluation of proposals 
MA Q1 2023 – Q1 2025 VS1  Examination and verification contractor work 
 
  
 
 Page 16 of 17 
 
MA Q2 2022 VS2 Creating tender documents 
MA Q3 2022 VS2 Assisting with MoI 
MA Q3 2022 VS2 Evaluation of proposals 
MA Q1 2023 – Q1 2025 VS2 Examination and verification contractor work 
MA Q2 2022 VS5 Creating tender documents 
MA Q3 2022 VS5 Assisting with MoI 
MA Q3 2022 VS5 Evaluation of proposals 
MA Q1 2023-Q12025 VS5 Examination and verification contractor work  
MA Q2 2022 VSDS Creating tender documents 
MA Q3 2022 VSDS Assisting with MoI 
MA Q3 2022 VSDS Evaluation of proposals 
MA Q4 2022 – Q4 2024 VSDS Examination and verification contractor work 
This table provides an estimation of the dates. Tenders cannot derive any rights from the provided information.  
 
 
 
  
 
 Page 17 of 17