=== Document: 3. application form - water as leverage cartagena ===
Water as Leverage Cartagena – Construyendo con el Agua  About this form : It is required to add a  signed version of this form to  a  Quotation  for  Water as Leverage Cartagena Send in  this  form and all  attachments  to RVO  Check for   the right names  and file formats  of  the   attachments It is not allowed to change, remove and/or add items to this form.  Make sure to b e on time! The deadline is mentioned in the Call for Action Required attachments to this Quotation form: Proposal for Water as Leverage Cartagena  ( incl. proposal attachments,  official version in English, see ‘Format Proposal’) Proposal for Water as Leverage Cartagena ( incl. proposal attachments,  Spanish version, see ‘Format Proposal) Public summary (Word-document) and separate image (if desired) Budget overview, using or based on the ‘Format Financial Proposal’ Quotation form Send  this  form and the required attachments to the address mentioned in the Call for Action. Applicant Organisation name           Registration no. (for NL: KVK)           Registered address           Postal code           Town/City           Country           VAT registration no.           IBAN-number           BIC-code           Number of employees           Year of establishment           Type of organisation            Contact details of the main contractor  Provide the name and details of the project lead / contact person. Please select  Mr.    Ms.   :             First name           Last name           Position           Mobile phone           Email           City           Country           Intermediary  Only use this section in case the Quotation is sent in by an intermediary. Did you authorize an intermediary to send-in the Quotation?   Yes      No Organisation name           Registration no. (for NL: KVK)           Registered address           Postal code           Town/City           Country           Email           City           Country           Provide the name and details of the intermediary. Please select  Mr.    Ms.   :            First name           Last name           Role           Mobile phone           Email           City           Country           Contact details of the subcontractors Provide the  organisation  name(s) and contact person(s) of the subcontractor(s). Subcontractor 1 Contact person Subcontractor 2 Contact person Subcontractor 3 Contact person Subcontractor 4 Contact person Subcontractor 5 Contact person Subcontractor 6  Contact person Subcontractor 7 Contact person Quotation Title of the proposal (Spanish)           Title of the proposal (English)           Acronym (short title)           NB :  use the acronym as a title for all your digital files to ensure correct and fast processing: acronym.WaLform.pdf acronym.proposal-EN.pdf  acronym.proposal-ES.pdf acronym.summary.docx (or comparable file format) acronym.image.png (or comparable file format acronym.budget.pdf (or preferred file format Total costs Phase 1  (exclusive VAT)               (in euro) Total costs Phase 2  (exclusive VAT)               (in euro) Total costs Phase 3  (exclusive VAT)               (in euro) Declaration and signature I am authori s ed to sign this  form . I declare that this form and the annexes have been completed truthfully  and that I am actively engaged in this project and responsible for its overall management and agree to administer the award if made.  I will conduct the activities  in accordance with the guidelines for Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) of the Organisation for Economic Co-operati on and Development (OECD)  the Environmental and Social Performance standards of the International Finance Corporation (IFC). (If relevant) the subcontractor(s) mentioned in the proposal have seen a copy of the Quotation and agree with its contents. I am familiar with the conditions and procedures as described in the  Call for Action and Guideline  documents  and all WaL Cartagena associated attachments  and I accept them. My organis ation  is not subject to the exclusion criteria mentioned in the Guidelines document.  I hereby confirm that I fully comply with the declaration as stated above. Please select  Mr.    Ms.   :            Full name           Position           Date           Location           Signature Follow-up Send in the form Send the completed and signed form with all annexes to RVO.  A confirmation will be sent by RVO Within 10 working days RVO will send an e-mail with confirmation of receipt .

=== Document: 4. format proposal - water as leverage cartagena ===
Contracting authority: 
 
 
 
 
 
In cooperation with: 
 
 
 
 
Ultimate recipient: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Proposal Format 
Water as Leverage Cartagena – Construyendo con el Agua 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Version:    final 
 
 
  

 
Proposal format “Water as Leverage Cartagena – Construyendo con el Agua” 2 
 
This proposal format generally describes the topics that should be addressed as part of a Water as Leverage 
Cartagena proposal. The proposal has a maximum of 30 pages, based on font Verdana, size 9, excluding cover, 
table of contents, colophon. Annexes (ex cept the ones defined by CA) cannot be considered as part of the 
assessment procedure. The consortium may choose the set-up and design of the proposal, as long as the topics 
mentioned below are included and the maximum length is taken into account.  
 
The proposal should be written in English, but has to be delivered in English and Spanish. The Spanish version 
of the proposal (except for the public summary and the executive summary) may be generated through 
automatic translation using applications like Google Translate or the automatic translation facility integrated in 
Microsoft Word. The English version of the proposal will count as the official version and as such, will become 
part of the contract.  
 
 
Proposal title and acronym 
Provide a proposal title in Spanish and English and one acronym. 
  
 
Public summary (one in Spanish and one in English, both with a maximum of 300 words)  
The public summary of a winning proposal will be used for communication purposes. The summary will not be 
assessed as part  of the evaluation. The summary should be understandable to the general public and suitable 
for public disclosure. Make sure to mention the different consortium members. One image may be added to the 
summary (both integrated in the proposal and separately added as an attachment). The public summary should 
be included in the proposal and delivered as a separate Word-file. 
 
 
Executive summary of the proposal (2-4 pages, in Spanish) 
Provide an executive summary of the entire proposal. This executive summary wi ll be used as part of the 
evaluation and should be written in (and therefore not automatically translated to) Spanish.  
 
 
1. Vision on the challenge  
Based on the provided city information (as part of the Call for Action document, Setting the Scene report and 
own research), provide a clear narrative which substantiates the vulnerabilities, challenges and opportunities 
the consortium wants to address and interlink as part of Water as Leverage Cartagena. Keep in mind that it is 
not the aim to already c ome up with specific solutions as part of the proposal, as it is at the heart of the Water 
as Leverage approach to jointly define these solutions as part of the WaL process. What are, according to the 
consortium, the key elements, their interdependencies a nd the planning context of the city? What is the 
perception of the consortium on the interlinkages between technical challenges, governance arrangements and 
financial mechanisms for water- and climate change adaptation related interventions in the city lan dscape? 
 
 
2. Approach  
Describe the team’s proposed research - and design approach and initial conceptual project ideas that could 
serve as an example of a potential solution to the identified challenges, acknowledging the fact that city-specific 
solutions will be defined through a joint process within WaL Cartagena. This trajectory requires the deployment 
of multidisciplinary teams, aimed to foster design -driven working methods. It is envisaged that this is different 
from a more traditional engineering -driven focus. How is this incorporated in the approach and as such, 
reflected in the team composition? 
  
The hotspots identified in Setting the Scene  offer concrete focus areas to for the proposal, and points out the 
applicable technical, governance and financ ial mechanisms that need to be taken into account as part of the 
approach. Specific attention should be given to how the team approach aims to deliver implementable solutions 
(incl. project proposals), without losing the transformative capacity of innovati ve and integral solutions. How 
will the team approach the Research, Analysis and Design phase, resulting in Conceptual Designs? And how will 
 
Proposal format “Water as Leverage Cartagena – Construyendo con el Agua” 3 
 
this be used during the Pre -project Preparation and Structuring phase, resulting in project proposals on pre -
feasibility level? What is the team’s perspective on the feasibility phase, resulting in a full feasibility study?  
 
The approach should include an elaboration on the different phases and the associated activities/deliverables 
as described in the Call for Action document. How will the team ensure timely delivery of the defined deliverables 
and ensure the defined activities are carried out to a high standard? How will the team ensure alignment with 
the ambition to deliver innovative, integral and implementable desi gns/proposals/projects/solutions (in phase 
1, 2 and 3)? 
 
What is the approach of the consortium on using the ‘WaL ecosystem’ to come up with integral, innovative and 
implementable solutions, through participating in an inclusive process? This includes the Water as Leverage 
Support Track and the Water as Leverage Communication Team, but explicit attention should also be given to 
the intended collaboration with key counterparts, of which the Alcaldía de Cartagena, its technical departments 
and other entities such as the Establecimiento Público Ambiental (EPA) are most crucial.  
 
Water as Leverage Cartagena has the ambition to deliver solutions as part of an inclusive process. The team’s 
approach should include a clear perspective on the intended collaboration with communities, NGOs, academics 
and other stakeholder groups relevant for the development of solutions as part of Water as Leverage Cartagena. 
It is expected that the teams do not only interact with these and other key stakeholders and key counterparts 
during the workshops, but seek a connection with key governmental counterparts, communities and other 
stakeholder groups throughout the development process. What is the team’s approach related to this ambition? 
 
 
3. Team experience and expertise 
Describe the qualifications of the team to do this work, including  an overview of the consortium members, the 
specific experts, their roles and time spending as part of Water as Leverage Cartagena and the way the team 
composition addresses the minimum requirements as set out in the Call for Action document. Provide an 
overview of the different team members and the expected time available (including clear information about the 
team members participation during on -the-ground activities) for Water as Lever age Cartagena in the format 
financial proposal. 
 
A summary of team’s strengths and relevant experience related to the goals as mentioned in the Call for Action 
and the approach described in Section 2 of this document. Clearly articulate each team member's specific 
contribution to this effort and the multidisciplinary composition of the team. Discuss past collaborative efforts 
among team and/or consortium members, if applicable.  
 
Provide short descriptions of 5-10 projects that highlight previous work relevant to Water as Leverage Cartagena 
and the proposed approach. Do not include links to external documents. Provide an explicit perspective on how 
the team is taking young expert involvement, locally based experts and a focus on gender balance into account 
in the team, to broaden the knowledge base and to create a correct, effective and cost-efficient division of labour 
and a balance between senior and junior experts. 
 
 
4. Project management  
As part of the proposal, a clear project management strategy should  be provided, which focuses on internal 
project management and clearly states the proposed working method for the interaction with the contracting 
authority and the collaboration with key (and other) counterpart organizations, including the other 
multidisciplinary team.  
 
The project management strategy should address potential risks, both in terms of activities/deliverables as well 
as project management, and elaborate on the proposed mitigation measures. Furthermore, this chapter should 
include a separate reflection on, and strategy for the potential implications of COVID-19 on the execution of the 
activities. A clear and explicit elaboration should be included on the applicable company and personal 
considerations, conditions and policies related to travel movements of inte rnational and locally -based experts 
to and within Colombia. See the Guidelines-document for more information.  
 
Proposal format “Water as Leverage Cartagena – Construyendo con el Agua” 4 
 
 
 
Annexes  
i. CVs of team members, using the CV Format 
ii. Reference projects 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Proposal format “Water as Leverage Cartagena – Construyendo con el Agua” 5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This is a publication of   
The Netherlands Enterprise & Development Agency (RVO)  
Prinses Beatrixlaan 2  
PO Box 93144 | NL- 2509 AC The Hague  
T +31 (0) 88 042 42 42   
www.rvo.nl

=== Document: 5. model contract - water as leverage cartagena ===
Page 1 of 6 
 
 
 
 
Contract reference number: […] 
 
The undersigned: 
 
1. The State of the Netherlands, which has its seat in The Hague, represented by the Minister of 
Economic Affairs and Climate Policy, legally represented in this matter by … [signatory’s name and 
position], Netherlands Enterprise Agency, hereinafter referred to as the Contracting Authority, 
and 
 
2. [Contractor’s full name and legal form], which has its registered office in …, 
legally represented in this matter by ............... [and...] [signatory’s name], hereinafter referred to 
as the Contractor, 
 
jointly referred to as the Parties 
 
 
AGREE AS FOLLOWS:  
 
A number of terms in this Contract are written with initial capitals. The meanings of these terms 
are defined in article 1 of the General Government Terms and Conditions for Public Service 
Contracts 2018 (ARVODI 2018). 
 
 
1. Object of the Contract 
 
1.1  The Contracting Authority hereby commissions the Contractor to perform research- and 
development Services as described in the proposal submitted by the Contractor on [date] based on 
the Call for Action Water as Leverage Cartagena – Construyendo con el Agua issued by the 
Contracting Authority on [date], in so far as this Contract does not contain any provisions to the 
contrary. The Contractor hereby agrees to perform these Services. 
 
At the end of Phase 1, the Advisory Board advises the CA on the feasible Co nceptual Designs to be 
further developed. The CA will use this advice from the Advisory Board and will communicate to the 
team which Conceptual Designs will be transformed into Project Proposals in the subsequent phase. 
Information on the minimum set of Conceptual Designs and the assessment procedure at the end of 
Phase 1 is described in the Call for Action document. The CA reserves the right to terminate the 
contract in case the minimum number of Conceptual Designs with a ‘go -decision’ is not met at the 
end of Phase 1.  
 
 
 
 
 
 Page 2 of 6 
 
 
 
 
At the end of Phase 2, the Advisory Board advises the CA on the Project Proposals 
(if any) to be further developed. The CA will inform the teams about this decision. The CA reserves 
the right to terminate the contract in case the minimum number of Project Proposals with a ‘go -
decision’ is not met at the end of Phase 2. 
A contractor receiving a go -decision will continue developing one of the project proposals into a 
ready-to-tender infrastructure project. The Call for Action documen t provides further provisions on 
the deliverables and implications for Phase 3. The contractor will present the draft deliverables to 
the CA. The Advisory Board will provide feedback to the CA on the deliverables, after which teams 
will finalise their deliverables for the completion of Phase 3 and send them to the CA. 
1.2 The following documents are an integral part of this Contract. In the event of 
inconsistencies, a higher ranked document takes precedence over a lower ranked 
document: 
• this Contract; 
• the ARVODI 2018; 
• Questions and Answers document 
• the Guidelines Water as Leverage Cartagena – Construyendo con el Agua of 28 November 
2022; 
• the Call for Action Water as Leverage Cartagena – Construyendo con el Agua of 28 
November 2022; 
• The English version of the proposal issued by the Contractor to the Contracting Authority 
on [date], ref … 
 
1.3 The documents referred to in Article 1.2 are - also when not initialled - Attachments as in the 
definition that is used in the ARVODI-2018 (see attachment). 
 
1.4 At the end of Phase 1, the deliverables include but are not limited to:  
• A minimum of four and maximum of six innovative, integral and implementable conceptual 
designs for water and climate adaptation related infrastructure, following the requirements 
as stipulated in the Call for Action; 
  
 
1.5 The final deliverables of Phase 1 will be preceded by a final-draft set of deliverables, which 
shall be sent by the Contractor to the Contracting Authority 10 days before the local design 
workshop in September 2023. 
 
1.6 At the end of Phase 2, the deliverables include but are not limited to:  
• A minimum of three project proposals on pre-feasibility level, following the requirements as 
stipulated in the Call for Action; 
 
1.7 The final digital deliverables of Phase 2 will be preceded by a set of draft deliverables, which 
shall be sent by the Contractor to the Contracting Authority 10 days before the local design 
workshop in March 2024. 
 
1.8 At the end of Phase 3, the deliverables include but are not limited to a project proposal on full 
feasibility level, consisting of the following items, further described in the Call for Action: 
• Technical feasibility study 
• Detailed cost-benefit analysis and financial analysis 
• Land need assessment and acquisition plan 
• Detailed engineering design 
• Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) 
• Bidding documents 
 
 
 
 
 
 Page 3 of 6 
 
 
 
 
• DRIVE intake 
• Reporting 
 
 
 
2. Formation and duration of the Contract 
 
2.1 This Contract is binding once it has been signed by both Parties. 
 
2.2 The agreed Services for Phase 1 must be completed by 15 September 2023.  
 
2.3 If at issue, the agreed Services for Phase 2 must be completed by 29 March 2024. 
 
2.4 If at issue, the agreed Services for Phase 3 must be completed by 31 January 2025. 
 
2.5 If the Services have not been performed in full in accordance with the Contract within the 
agreed or extended term, the Contractor will immediately pay a penalty of 0.1% of the total or 
maximum price specified in the Contract for each day that it fails to perform the Services as 
agreed, up to a maximum of 10% thereof. If, other than through force majeure, the Contractor is 
permanently unable to perform the Services as agreed, the penalty will be immediately payable in 
full.  
 
The penalty will be payable to the Contracting Authority, without prejudice to all other rights and 
claims, including: 
a. the right to demand that the Services be performed as agreed; 
b. the right to damages. 
The penalty will be set off against amounts payable by the Contracting Authority regardless of 
whether the claim for payment of such amounts has been transferred to a third party. 
 
 
3. Price and other financial provisions 
 
3.1 The Contractor will perform the Services for a fixed amount of  
€ 1.200.000,- (excluding Dutch VAT and including foreign VAT, travel & DSA costs and any other 
costs) under the condition of approval for Phase 1 and 2. 
Phase 1 consists of an amount of € 200.000,-.  
Phase 2 consists of an amount of € 300.000,- 
Phase 3 consists of an amount of € 700.000,-.  
 
3.2 It is expressly agreed that if the Contractor does not charge VAT but some or all of the Services 
are not exempt from VAT, the Contracting Authority will not be liable to pay the VAT in question. 
 
3.3 The amount covers all Services to be performed by the Contractor under this Contract, 
including any materials and expenses needed for this purpose.  
 
3.4 Payment takes place as follows, after receipt of the invoices:  
 
Phase 1: 
• € 125.000,- after returning a signed copy of this contract; 
• € 75.000,- after receipt and acceptance of the results of Phase 1 (this amount shall be 
added to the first invoice of Phase 2) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Page 4 of 6 
 
 
 
 
 
Phase 2, if at issue: 
• € 200.000,- at the start of Phase 2, after the go-decision based on the Phase 1-results 
• € 100.000,- after receipt and acceptance of the results of Phase 2 (this amount shall be 
added to the first invoice of Phase 3) 
 
Phase 3, if at issue: 
• The payment schedule for Phase 3 will be determined in discussion between CA and 
contractor. 
 
 
 
3.5 Contractor is required to send invoices to: 
Netherlands Enterprise Agency 
RVO – Partners for Water 
Mentioning the Contract reference number 
Government Organisation Identification Number (OIN): 00000004000000161000 
 
Netherlands-based organisations have to send-in their invoices using eFactureren (more 
information on www.helpdesk-efactureren.nl)  
 
Foreign-based organisations have to send-in their invoices in PDF to InkoopPvW@rvo.nl  
 
If the invoice is not sent according to these instructions, this may result in the invoice not being 
processed or the payment term being extended. 
 
3.6 Payments to third parties employed or hired by the Contractor, if any, shall remain the 
responsibility of the Contractor who shall ensure that such payments are made promptly. 
 
3.7 The Contracting Authority may request at any time such evidence as may reasonably be 
required that the Contractor has used the amounts paid in accordance with the Contract in 
connection with the Services. The Contractor shall maintain proper financial records relating to the 
performed Services at all times during the Contract Period and for a period of six years after the 
end of the Contract Period. 
 
 
4. Contacts / project managers 
 
4.1 The Contracting Authority’s contact is […] (RVO). The Contractor’s contact is [NAME] 
 
4.2  Notwithstanding the provisions of article 10.2 of the ARVODI 2018, the contacts named 
above cannot make legally binding agreements on the Parties’ behalf. 
 
 
5. Other Terms and Conditions 
 
5.1 This Contract is governed exclusively by the General Government Terms and Conditions for 
Public Service Contracts 2018 (ARVODI 2018) (please refer to Annex 1) in so far as this Contract 
does not contain any provisions to the contrary. Any general and special terms and conditions 
drawn up by the Contractor do not apply to this Contract 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Page 5 of 6 
 
 
 
 
5.2 Articles 13, 19 and 26 of the ARVODI-2018 do not apply. 
 
5.3 Article 24 ARVODI-2018 does not apply. However, the Contractor is obliged to arrange a full 
right of use (licence) for the Contracting Authority and the third parties mentioned in the 
Guidelines document. In addition, the Contractor is obliged upon request to grant licenses to third 
parties at a fair market price. A more elaborate description of intellectual property and the 
applicable licence may be found in the Guidelines document. 
 
If, within four years of its creation, any intellectual property resulting from this contract has not 
been commercially exploited by the Contractor (and/or any potential subcontractors), and the 
Contractor (and/or any potential subcontractors) is not using its best endeavours to do so, or the 
Contractor (and/or any potential Subcontractor) is using the intellectual property to the detriment 
of public interest, the Contractor (and any potential subcontractors) shall if requested by the 
Contracted Authority assign the intellectual property rights to the Authority 
 
5.4 The Contractor will cooperate with evaluations that will take place during and after this contract 
in the context of the Water as Leverage trajectory and commissioned by the Contracting Authority. 
 
5.5 Contrary to article 31 ARVODI-2018, the Contractor does not require permission from the 
Contracting Authority for notification of the contract in publications and advertisements. If 
Contractor wants to publish, it will state that the contract has been carried out in the context of a 
Water as Leverage Cartagena trajectory, as part of the bilateral collaboration between the 
Netherlands and Colombia. The contractor sends a copy of publications to the Contracting 
Authority. 
 
 
6. Declaration of integrity and responsible business conduct 
 
The Contractor hereby declares that it has not offered or given members of the Contracting 
Authority’s Staff any benefit in order to obtain the contract nor arranged for them to be offered or 
given any such benefit. It undertakes not to do so in the future with a view to inducing any 
members of the Contracting Authority’s Staff to perform or refrain from performing any act. 
 
The Contractor hereby declares that the activities will be conducted in accordance with 
• the guidelines for Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) of the Organisation for Economic Co-
operation and Development (OECD)1 and  
• the Environmental and Social Performance standards2 of the International Finance Corporation 
(IFC). 
 
 
7. Final provisions 
 
7.1 In addition to article 22 ARVODI-2018 it applies that in all cases of premature termination of 
this Contract the Contracting Authority may require the Contractor to complete the Services in such 
a way and transfer the results to the Contractor or a third party to be appointed by it, such that 
unimpeded continuation of the assignment is possible. 
 
1  http://mneguidelines.oecd.org/guidelines/ 
2 https://www.ifc.org/wps/wcm/connect/Topics_Ext_Content/IFC_External_Corporate_Site/Sustainabilit y-At-
IFC/Policies-Standards/Performance-Standards  
 
 
 
 
 
 Page 6 of 6 
 
 
 
 
 
7.2 Deviations from this Contract are only binding insofar as they have been expressly agreed 
between both Parties in writing. 
 
7.3 Any written or oral agreements previously made by the Parties about the Services that are the 
object of this Contract are nullified by the signature of this Contract. 
 
 
 
Done on the later of the two dates stated below and signed in duplicate. 
 
 
The Hague, [date] ………………………   [place, date] ……………………  
 
For the Minister of Economic Affairs  For [Contractor’s name] 
and Climate Policy 
[name of portfolio] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[signatory’s name]                                 [signatory’s name] 
[signatory’s position]                              [signatory’s position]

=== Document: annex - arvodi 2018 english ===
AVT18/BZ125884C 1  
General Government Terms and Conditions 
for Public Service Contracts 2018  
(ARVODI 2018) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adopted by order of  
the Prime Minister, 
Minister of General Affairs, 
of 3 May 2018, no. 3219106 
 
AVT18/BZ125884C 2  
I GENERAL 
Article 1 Definitions  
The following terms are written with initial capitals in these general terms and 
conditions and are defined as follows: 
1.1 Professional Errors: shortcomings such as mistakes, acts of carelessness, 
negligence, omissions and erroneous advice, which a competent and 
conscientious contractor would, in the given circumstances and assuming a 
normal degree of attention, competence and professionalism, not commit; 
1.2 Schedule: a document attached to the Contract which, when initialled by both 
Parties, forms an integral part of the Contract; 
1.3 Services: the work the Contractor is to perform for the Contracting Authority 
under the terms of the Contract; 
1.4 Contracting Authority: the State of the Netherlands or any other contracting 
authority using these general terms and conditions; 
1.5 Contractor: the counterparty of the Contracting Authority; 
1.6 Contract: the written agreement between the Contracting Authority and the 
Contractor to which the Terms and Conditions are declared to apply; 
1.7 Party: the Contracting Authority or Contractor, depending on the context; 
1.8 Contracting Authority’s Staff: the members of staff and/or assistants used by the 
Contracting Authority during the performance of the Contract; 
1.9 Contractor’s Staff: the members of staff and/or assistants used by the Contractor 
for the purpose of performing the Contract for whom the Contractor is 
responsible under the terms of the Contract; 
1.10 Terms and Conditions: these general terms and conditions, which apply to and 
form an integral part of the Contract.  
1.11 Working Day: calendar day, except weekends and generally recognised public 
holidays within the meaning of section 3, subsection 1 of the General Extension 
of Time Limits Act. 
Article 2 Application 
2.1 Amendments or additions to the Contract or derogations from the Terms and 
Conditions (or parts of them) are binding only if they have been explicitly agreed 
in writing by the Parties.  
2.2 In the event of inconsistency between the Dutch text of these Terms and 
Conditions and translations of them, the Dutch text prevails. 
 
AVT18/BZ125884C 3  
II PERFORMANCE OF THE CONTRACT 
Article 3 Guarantees given by the Contractor 
3.1 The Contractor guarantees that the Services to be provided by it or on its behalf 
meet the requirements laid down in the Contract. 
3.2 The Contractor guarantees that the Services to be provided by it or on its behalf 
will be performed in a professional manner. 
Article 4 Assessment and acceptance  
4.1 The Contracting Authority will assess the results of the Services within 30 days 
of the date of their delivery. If it decides that the results are satisfactory, it will 
notify the Contractor that they have been accepted. 
4.2 If the Contracting Authority decides that the results of the Services are 
unsatisfactory, it will notify the Contractor that they have not been accepted. 
4.3 The Contracting Authority may have the results of the Services assessed by 
third parties. 
4.4 If the Contracting Authority has not notified the Contractor within 30 days of the 
date of delivery of the Services, it will be deemed to have accepted the results. 
 
4.5 The Contracting Authority is not obliged to make any payment to the Contractor until the 
results have been accepted. 
 
Article 5 Place and time of performance 
 
 The Services will be performed at the time and place stated in the Contract. 
 
Article 6 Replacement of staff responsible for performing the Services 
 
6.1 The Contractor may temporarily or permanently replace staff who are 
responsible for performing the Services only by way of exception and with the 
prior consent of the Contracting Authority. The Contracting Authority will not 
withhold its consent without good reason and may attach conditions to its 
consent. The fees charged for the staff originally deployed may not be raised if 
they are replaced. 
 
6.2 If the Contracting Authority wishes to replace staff who are responsible for 
performing the Services, because it feels that this is either necessary or 
desirable for the proper performance of the Contract, the Contractor will comply 
with the Contracting Authority’s request. The fee charged for replacement staff 
will not be any higher than that laid down in the Contract for the staff replaced. 
 
6.3 If staff responsible for performing the Contract are replaced, the expertise, 
qualifications and experience of the replacement staff deployed by the 
Contractor must be at least equal to those of the original staff or must meet the 
criteria agreed by the Parties in this regard. 
AVT18/BZ125884C 4  
Article 7 Use of Contracting Authority’s property 
The Parties may agree that, in performing the Services, the Contractor may make use 
of property belonging to the Contracting Authority, which the Contracting Authority has 
lent to the Contractor for this purpose. The Contracting Authority may attach conditions 
to the loan of this property. 
Article 8 Subcontracting 
8.1 In performing the Contract, the Contractor may make use of third-party services 
only after it has obtained the Contracting Authority’s consent. The Contracting 
Authority will not withhold its consent without good reason. It may attach 
conditions to its consent. 
8.2 The fact that the Contracting Authority has given its consent does not affect the 
Contractor’s own responsibility and liability for discharging the obligations 
imposed on it under the Contract, and for discharging the obligations imposed on 
it as an employer under tax and social insurance law.
 
 
 
III RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN PARTIES AND SUPERVISION
 
Article 9 Progress reports 
 
The Contractor will report to the Contracting Authority on the progress of the work as 
often as and in a manner as the Contract prescribes, or as the Contracting Authority 
deems fit. 
Article 10 Contacts 
 
10.1 Each Party will designate a contact who will be responsible for maintaining 
contacts in relation to the performance of the Contract. The Parties will notify 
each other of the person they have appointed as their contact.
 
 
10.2 The contacts may represent and bind the Parties only as regards the 
performance of the Contract. They may not amend the Contract.  
 
Article 11 Supervisory/steering committee 
 
The Contract may provide for the formation of a supervisory or steering committee 
whose duties, powers and composition may be laid down in the Contract.  
 
Article 12 Method of notification 
 
12.1 Notifications given by one Party to the other, including undertakings and further 
agreements, that are relevant to the performance of the Contract are binding on 
the Parties only if they are given or confirmed in writing by an authorised person. 
 
12.2 ‘In writing’ is understood to include ‘electronically’, provided: 
a. the notification can be consulted by the addressee; 
AVT18/BZ125884C 5  
b. the authenticity of the notification is sufficiently guaranteed; and 
c. the identity of the sender can be determined with sufficient certainty. 
 
Article 13 Confidentiality 
 
13.1 The Contractor will not divulge in any way any information that comes to its 
knowledge in performing the Contract and which it knows or may reasonably be 
assumed to know is confidential, except in so far as it is compelled to divulge 
such information under a statutory regulation or court ruling. 
 
13.2 The Contractor will impose the same duty of confidentiality on its own Staff and 
guarantees that they will fulfil it. 
 
13.3 The Contractor will not divulge to third parties in any way the results of the 
Services performed or provide any information on the results to third parties 
without the Contracting Authority’s express consent. The Contracting Authority 
may attach conditions to such consent. 
 
13.4 After termination of the Contract, the Contractor must hand over to the 
Contracting Authority without delay, at the Contracting Authority’s first request, 
information that the Contractor has in its possession for the purpose of 
performing the Contract, with the exception of information that the Contractor is 
required to have in its possession on the basis of legislation and/or generally 
accepted professional rules applicable to the Contractor. 
 
13.5 If the Contractor breaches its duty of confidentiality, the Contracting Authority 
may impose a penalty, as laid down in the Contract. Payment of a penalty that is 
payable immediately does not discharge the Contractor from its liability for 
indemnifying any damage caused by the breach. 
 
Article 14 Processing of personal data 
 
14.1 In so far as the Contractor, as a processor within the meaning of the General 
Data Protection Regulation, processes personal data for the Contracting 
Authority in the framework of the implementation of the Personal Data 
Agreement, the Contractor guarantees the application of appropriate technical 
and organisational measures, so that processing meets the requirements of the 
General Data Protection Regulation and the protection of the data subjects is 
ensured. The Contractor will process personal data only for and on the basis of 
written instructions from the Contracting Authority, barring statutory rules to the 
contrary. 
 
14.2. The Parties will regulate the processing of personal data by the Contractor for 
the Contracting Authority by means of an agreement. 
 
Article 15 Security 
 
15.1 The Contractor will instruct the Contractor’s Staff involved in the performance of 
the work, in so far as the work is performed on the Contracting Authority’s 
premises, to comply with the Contracting Authority’s security procedures and 
AVT18/BZ125884C 6  
other rules. The Contracting Authority will inform the Contractor in good time 
about these procedures and rules. 
 
15.2  The Contracting Authority may require the Contractor to provide certificates of 
conduct for the Contractor’s Staff, at least three Working Days before work 
begins on the Contracting Authority’s premises. 
 
15.3 The Contracting Authority may carry out security checks on members of the 
Contractor’s Staff, in accordance with the rules usually applied by the 
Contracting Authority. The Contractor will lend its full cooperation to such 
checks. The Contracting Authority may, on the basis of the results of a security 
check, refuse to allow the person in question to work on the Contract, without 
giving any reasons.
 
 
 
IV FINANCIAL PROVISIONS 
 
Article 16 Payment and upward and downward contract variations 
 
16.1 The Contracting Authority will pay for the costs actually incurred and the hours 
actually worked by the Contractor, unless a fixed fee has been agreed in the 
Contract. 
 
16.2 Should any additional requirements stipulated by the Contracting Authority, any 
new information that is brought to the notice of the Contracting Authority or any 
changes to the statutory regulations applicable to the work in question lead to 
the work performed by the Contractor under the Contract becoming 
demonstrably more demanding or extensive, this additional work constitutes an 
upward contract variation for which the Contractor may charge a fee. Additional 
work or new information which the Contractor could have foreseen when the 
Contract was signed is not regarded as constituting an upward contract 
variation. If a Party regards a particular request as constituting an upward 
contract variation, it will notify the other Party thereof as quickly as possible. 
 
16.3 The Contractor will not start any additional work that constitutes an upward 
contract variation until it has received a written order to this effect from the 
Contracting Authority. In order to obtain such an order, the Contractor will issue 
a written quotation specifying the amount of additional work that is to be 
performed, its duration and cost. Any additional work performed by the 
Contractor will be subject to the provisions of the Contract, including those on 
fees and discounts, where relevant, in so far as these have not been amended 
by the Contracting Authority’s written order. When submitting a quotation, the 
Contractor may not impose terms and conditions that are either more detailed or 
more stringent than the original Terms and Conditions, unless it does so with the 
Contracting Authority’s consent.
 
 
16.4 The Contractor will always accept and carry out an order for additional work 
representing up to a maximum of 10% of the original Contract value. Such an 
order for additional work is subject to the provisions of the Contract. 
 
AVT18/BZ125884C 7  
16.5 Should any new information that is brought to the notice of the Contracting 
Authority or any changes to the statutory regulations applicable to the work in 
question lead to the work performed by the Contractor under the Contract 
becoming demonstrably less demanding or extensive, this constitutes a 
downward contract variation for which the Contracting Authority is entitled to a 
discount. If a Party regards a particular change as constituting a downward 
contract variation, it will notify the other Party thereof in writing as quickly as 
possible. If a fixed fee has been agreed, the Parties will consult to agree on the 
value of the discount, which will be deducted from the agreed fee. 
 
Article 17 Invoicing 
 
17.1 The Contractor will send the invoice electronically so that the Contracting 
Authority can receive and process it electronically, in accordance with the 
specifications issued by the Contracting Authority. 
 
17.2 The Contractor will send invoices to the Contracting Authority. Each invoice will 
state the date and number of the Contract and the relevant VAT charge. If 
applicable under article 4, the Contractor will enclose a copy of the notice of 
acceptance with the invoice, together with any other information requested by 
the Contracting Authority. 
 
 
17.3 If it has been agreed that the invoice will be based on the actual amount of time 
spent as calculated after the completion of the Contract, the Contractor will 
compile an itemised invoice in a format which the Contracting Authority is free to 
specify. The Contractor’s invoice will state the number of days and hours 
actually and necessarily spent on the Contract, as well as the relevant dates, 
and will also contain a brief description of the work performed, and of any travel 
and accommodation expenses if these are not included in the daily or hourly 
rates under the Contract. 
 
17.4 The Contractor will present separate invoices for any upward contract variations 
after the additional work in question has been completed and accepted by the 
Contracting Authority. The invoices will explicitly state the nature and amount of 
the additional work performed, which will be itemised on the basis of authentic 
documents. 
 
Article 18 Payment and invoice audits 
 
18.1 The Contracting Authority will pay the Contractor the amount owing under the 
Contract no later than 30 days of receiving the relevant invoice, provided it 
satisfies the provisions of the Contract. 
 
18.2 If the Contracting Authority fails without good reason to pay an invoice within 
the time limit stipulated in article 18.1, it will automatically be liable to pay: a. 
compensation as referred to in article 6:96, paragraph 4 of the Dutch Civil 
Code, and b. statutory interest as referred to in article 6:119b, paragraph 1 of 
the Dutch Civil Code. The compensation and interest will be payable on 
demand. 
 
 
AVT18/BZ125884C 8  
18.3 The Contracting Authority may instruct an accountant designated by the 
Contracting Authority, as referred to in article 2:393, paragraph 1 of the Dutch 
Civil Code, to audit the invoices submitted by the Contractor to determine their 
accuracy. The Contractor will allow the accountant to inspect its books and 
documents, and will supply him with any information he requests. This audit is 
confidential and does not involve any more than is necessary to check the 
invoices. The accountant will report as quickly as possible to both Parties. The 
Contracting Authority will pay the cost of the accountant’s audit, unless the 
latter’s work reveals that the invoices in question are not accurate or complete, 
in which case the Contractor will be liable for the cost of the inspection. 
 
18.4 The Contracting Authority may defer payment of an invoice or a portion thereof,  
about which the Parties have failed to reach agreement, for the duration of the 
accountant’s audit. The Contracting Authority will exercise this right only if it has 
reasonable doubts about the accuracy of the invoice in question. 
 
18.5 The Contractor is not entitled to suspend or terminate its work on account of the 
Contracting Authority’s failure to pay an invoice within the stipulated time limit, or 
if the Contracting Authority does not pay an invoice because it suspects that the 
invoice is inaccurate or because the Services have not been properly performed. 
 
Article 19 Advance 
 
19.1 If the Contracting Authority, for the purpose of performing the Contract, makes 
one or more payments for Services that have not yet been rendered, it may 
require the Contractor to issue the Contracting Authority with an on-demand 
bank guarantee prior to making the payment(s) in question, to the value of the 
payment(s) in question. The Contracting Authority will not be required to pay any 
of the cost of the guarantee.  
 
19.2 If the Contracting Authority does not accept certain Services within the stipulated 
time limit as a result of a failure that is attributable to the Contractor, the 
Contractor is liable to pay statutory interest on the advance for as long as the 
failure persists. 
 
19.3 The on-demand bank guarantee will be issued by a bank approved by the 
Contracting Authority, in accordance with the model enclosed with these Terms 
and Conditions (see Annexe 1). 
 
 
V NON-PERFORMANCE 
 
Article 20 Potential delays 
 
20.1 If there is any risk of the performance of the Services being delayed, the 
Contractor will immediately notify the Contracting Authority, explaining the 
reasons for and the consequences of the potential delay. The Contractor will 
also propose measures to avoid further delay. 
 
 
AVT18/BZ125884C 9  
20.2 Within 14 days of receiving the notification referred to in the preceding 
paragraph, the Contracting Authority will notify the Contractor whether or not it 
agrees with the proposed measures and the consequences described by the 
Contractor. Agreement does not imply any acceptance by the Contracting 
Authority of the cause of the potential delay, and does not affect any other rights 
or claims accruing to the Contracting Authority under the Contract and 
legislation. 
 
Article 21 Liability  
 
21.1 If one of the Parties fails to discharge its obligations under the Contract, the 
other Party may give notice of default. The defaulting Party is deemed to be 
immediately in default, however, if it is clear that there is no prospect 
whatsoever of it discharging the obligations in question within the stipulated time 
limit for reasons other than force majeure. The notice of default will be given in 
writing, and the defaulting Party will be given a reasonable period of time in 
which to discharge its obligations. This is a strict deadline. The defaulting Party 
is in default if it fails to discharge its obligations by the deadline set. 
 
21.2 The notice of default referred to in the preceding paragraph is not required if the 
time limit by which the agreed Services should have been performed has been 
extended prior to its expiry. If the defaulting Party fails to discharge its 
obligations as described in the preceding paragraph by the end of the extended 
time limit, the defaulting Party is held to be immediately in default as from that 
date. 
 
 
21.3 Unless agreed otherwise, a Party that imputably fails to discharge its obligations 
is liable to the other Party for any damage incurred by the other Party, on the 
understanding that liability is limited to the following amounts: 
− for Contracts whose total value is less than or equal to €50,000: €150,000 
per event and €300,000 for each year or part of a year that the Contract has 
been in force; 
− for Contracts whose total value is greater than €50,000 but less than or 
equal to €100,000: €300,000 per event and €500,000 for each year or part of 
a year that the Contract has been in force; 
− for Contracts whose total value is greater than €100,000 but less than or 
equal to €150,000: €500,000 per event and €1,000,000 for each year or part 
of a year that the Contract has been in force; 
− for Contracts whose total value is greater than €150,000 but less than or 
equal to €500,000: €1,500,000 per event and €3,000,000 for each year or 
part of a year that the Contract has been in force; 
− for Contracts whose total value is greater than €500,000: €3,000,000 per 
event and €5,000,000 for each year or part of a year that the Contract has 
been in force. 
 
Related events will be treated as a single event. 
 
The limitation of liability referred to above will not apply: 
a. in the event of third-party claims for compensation in respect of death or 
personal injury; 
AVT18/BZ125884C 10  
b. in the event of intent or gross negligence on the part of the other Party, the 
Contractor’s Staff or the Contracting Authority’s Staff; 
c. in the event of a breach of intellectual property rights as referred to in article 
24; 
d. in the event of an agreement concluded between the Parties under article 
14, paragraph 2: to claims for compensation in relation to failure to comply 
with that agreement, including any fines imposed by the supervisory 
authority. 
 
21.4 If, in performing the Services, the Contractor makes use of property belonging to 
the Contracting Authority as referred to in article 7, the Contractor is liable for 
any damage caused to such property. The limitation of liability set out in 
paragraph 3 applies mutatis mutandis. 
 
21.5 If the Contractor or third parties suffer damage, in whatever manner, as a result 
of using property belonging to the Contracting Authority as referred to in article 
7, the Contractor will bear the full expense and risk. The limitation of liability set 
out in paragraph 3 applies mutatis mutandis. 
 
21.6 The Contractor is liable for all obligations in respect of the Contractor’s Staff, 
including those arising under tax and social insurance law. The Contractor 
indemnifies the Contracting Authority against any liability in this connection. The 
limitation of liability referred to in paragraph 3 does not apply.
 
 
Article 22 Cancellation and notice of termination 
 
22.1 Without prejudice to the other provisions of the Contract, either Party may 
cancel the Contract in full or in part by registered letter, without recourse to the 
courts, if the other Party is in default or compliance is permanently or temporarily 
impossible, unless the breach does not warrant cancellation in view of its 
exceptional nature or limited importance.  
 
22.2 If one of the Parties is unable to discharge its obligations under the Contract as 
a result of force majeure, the other Party is entitled to cancel the Contract, 
subject to a reasonable period, in full or in part out of court by registered mail, 
without its action creating any entitlement to compensation, but no earlier than 
15 Working Days as from the date on which the circumstance that produced the 
force majeure arose. 
 
22.3 The term ‘force majeure’ is in any event understood not to include: staff 
shortages, strikes, staff illness, shortages of raw materials, transport problems, 
late delivery or the unsuitability of items required for the performance of the 
work, liquidity or solvency problems on the part of the Contractor or failures on 
the part of third parties engaged by the Contractor. 
 
22.4 The Contracting Authority may cancel the Contract forthwith out of court by 
registered mail, without being required to send any demand or notice of default, 
if the Contractor applies for or is granted a provisional or definitive suspension of 
payments, files for bankruptcy, is declared bankrupt, if its business is wound up, 
if it ceases trading, if a substantial proportion of its assets are seized, if it 
AVT18/BZ125884C 11  
undergoes a merger or a division or is dissolved, or if it is deemed on any other 
grounds to be no longer capable of discharging its obligations under the 
Contract. 
 
22.5 If the Contract is cancelled, the Contractor will repay any undue amounts 
already paid by the Contracting Authority, plus the statutory interest on those 
amounts from the date on which they were paid. If the Contract is partially 
cancelled, the Contractor only has to repay payments relating to the part of the 
contract that has been cancelled. 
 
22.6 In addition, the Contracting Authority may terminate the Contract at any time by 
giving notice of termination by registered mail. In such an event, the account 
between the Contracting Authority and the Contractor will be settled on the basis 
of the Services provided and costs reasonably incurred by the Contractor in 
carrying out the assignment in question and of any commitments reasonably 
entered into for the future for the purposes of the present Contract. The 
Contracting Authority is not obliged to compensate the Contractor in any way for 
the consequences of the termination of the Contract.
 
 
Article 23 Retention of right to demand performance 
 
The fact that one of the Parties omits to demand the performance of any provision of 
the Contract within a time limit set by the Contract does not affect its right to demand 
performance at a later date, unless the Party in question has expressly agreed to the 
non-performance in writing. 
 
 
VI MISCELLANEOUS
 
 
Article 24 Intellectual property rights 
 
24.1 Unless agreed otherwise, all copyrights that may be exercised in relation to the 
results of the Services performed by the Contractor accrue to the Contracting 
Authority, irrespective of where and when they may be exercised. Pursuant to 
the Contract, the Contractor assigns such intellectual property rights to the 
Contracting Authority as soon as they arise. The Contracting Authority hereby 
accepts the assignment of these rights. 
  
24.2 All database rights that may be exercised in relation to the results of the 
Services performed by the Contractor accrue to the Contracting Authority, 
irrespective of where and when they may be exercised. Pursuant to the 
Contract, the Contractor assigns such intellectual property rights to the 
Contracting Authority as soon as they arise. The Contracting Authority hereby 
accepts the assignment of these rights 
 
24.3 In so far as the results of the Services performed are achieved partly or wholly 
using existing intellectual property rights that do not accrue to the Contracting 
Authority, the Contractor grants the Contracting Authority a non-exclusive and 
irrevocable right of use for an indefinite period. In such an event, the Contractor 
guarantees that it is entitled to grant the aforesaid right of use. 
AVT18/BZ125884C 12  
24.4 In so far as a separate instrument needs to be executed for the assignment of 
the rights referred to in articles 24.1 and 24.2, the Contractor hereby irrevocably 
authorises the Contracting Authority to draft such an instrument and sign it on 
the Contractor’s behalf, without prejudice to the Contractor’s obligation to 
cooperate with the assignment of these rights as soon as the Contracting 
Authority requests it to do so, without attaching any conditions to its cooperation.  
 
24.5 If there is a difference of opinion between the Parties on the intellectual property 
rights referred to in articles 24.1 and 24.2, in relation to the results of the 
Services performed, it will be assumed, in the absence of proof to the contrary, 
that the rights accrue to the Contracting Authority. In all cases, the Contracting 
Authority may continue to use the results for the purposes specified in the 
Contract. 
 
24.6 The Contractor hereby renounces vis-à-vis the Contracting Authority any moral 
rights vested in it, i.e. the Contractor, as referred to in the Copyright Act, in so far 
as the relevant regulations allow it to do so. Acting both in its own capacity and 
on behalf of the Contractor’s Staff, and as authorised to this end, the Contractor 
renounces vis-à-vis the Contracting Authority any moral rights vested in these 
staff, in so far as the relevant regulations allow it to do so. 
 
24.7 The Contractor indemnifies the Contracting Authority against all claims brought 
by third parties in respect of any breach of their intellectual property rights, 
including equivalent claims relating to knowledge, unlawful competition and 
suchlike. The Contractor is obliged to take any action that may help to prevent 
stagnation and to limit the additional costs and/or damage incurred as a result of 
such breaches, and to do so at its own expense. 
 
24.8 Without prejudice to the above provisions, the Contracting Authority may, if a 
third party holds the Contractor liable for a breach of its intellectual property 
rights, cancel the Contract in writing, in full or in part, out of court, without 
prejudice to its other rights vis-à-vis the Contractor, such to include but not 
limited to any right to compensation. The Contracting Authority will not exercise 
its right to cancel the Contract until it has first consulted the Contractor.  
 
24.9 Intellectual property rights arising from the Services performed other than those 
referred to in articles 24.1 and 24.2 may never be exercised against the 
Contracting Authority, and the Contractor assigns to the Contracting Authority a 
non-exclusive and irrevocable right to use such rights, free of charge, for an 
indefinite period for the purposes of the Contract’s objectives.
 
 
Article 25 Assignment of rights and obligations under the Contract 
 
25.1 The Parties may not transfer their rights and obligations under the Contract to 
third parties without the consent of the other Party. The other Party will not 
withhold its consent without good reason. The Parties may attach conditions. 
 
25.2 Paragraph 1 does not apply to the establishment of limited rights, such as a 
right of pledge. 
 
AVT18/BZ125884C 13  
Article 26 Insurance 
 
26.1 The Contractor has taken out and will retain adequate and customary insurance 
cover in accordance with generally accepted standards in respect of the 
following risks: 
a. professional liability, i.e. the risks arising from Professional Errors; 
b. business liability, including liability for damage caused to persons or the 
Contracting Authority’s property; 
c. loss of or damage to business property (including as a result of fire or theft), 
including items of property owned by the Contracting Authority. 
 
26.2 At the Contracting Authority’s request, the Contractor will immediately present 
either the original or certified copies of the policies and proof of the payment of 
premium for the insurances referred to in paragraph 1 or a statement from the 
insurer to the effect that these policies exist and the premium has been paid. 
The insurance premiums owed by the Contractor are deemed to be included in 
the agreed prices and fees. 
 
Article 27 Employment conditions 
 
27.1 In performing the Services, the Contractor will comply with the applicable 
legislation on employment conditions and with the collective labour agreement 
applicable to it and its staff. 
 
27.2  The Contractor will record all agreements on employment conditions made for 
the purpose of the performance of the Contract in a clear and accessible 
manner. 
 
27.3 Upon request, the Contractor will immediately grant competent authorities 
access to these agreements on employment conditions and cooperate with any 
inspections, audits or salary validations. 
 
27.4 Upon request, the Contractor will immediately grant the Contracting Authority 
access to the agreements on employment conditions referred to in paragraph 2 
if the Contracting Authority considers this necessary to prevent or deal with a 
salary claim concerning work carried out for the purpose of the performance of 
the Contract. 
 
27.5 The Contractor will impose the obligations arising from the previous paragraphs 
in full on all parties with which it enters into contracts for the purpose of the 
performance of the Contract and will also stipulate that these parties impose 
these obligations in full on all parties with which they, in turn, enter into contracts 
for the purpose of the performance of the Contract. 
 
Article 28 Bribery and conflict of interests 
 
28.1 The Parties will not offer to each other or to third parties, or ask for, accept or 
obtain a promise of, from each other or third parties, whether for themselves or 
for any other party, any gift, reward, compensation or benefit of any form 
whatsoever if this could be construed as constituting an illicit practice. Such a 
AVT18/BZ125884C 14  
practice may constitute grounds for cancelling the Contract either in full or in 
part.  
 
28.2 Should it transpire that a member of the Contracting Authority’s Staff is also in 
the Contractor’s employment, regardless of whether or not such employment is 
paid, or was in the Contractor’s employment at the time when negotiations took 
place on the formation of the Contract, and that the Contracting Authority was 
not informed of this prior to the signing of the Contract, the Contracting Authority 
may cancel the Contract with immediate effect, without being required to give 
any notice of default or to pay any compensation. 
 
Article 29 Invalidity 
 
If one or more provisions of the Terms and Conditions or the Contract are found to be 
invalid or are nullified by a court of law, the remaining provisions will retain their legal 
force. The Parties will consult on the former provisions in order to make an alternative 
arrangement. The alternative arrangement must not undermine the purpose and the 
purport of the Terms and Conditions or the Contract. 
 
Article 30 Follow-up order 
 
The Contract does not entitle the Contractor to any follow-up orders. 
 
Article 31 Publicity 
 
The Contractor may not refer to the Contract either implicitly or explicitly in publications 
(including press releases) or advertisements and may use the Contracting Authority’s 
name as a reference only with the Contracting Authority’s consent. 
 
Article 32 Long-term provisions 
 
Provisions which by their nature are intended to persist after the Contract has been 
performed will remain in force after the expiry of the Contract. These obligations 
include in any event the provisions on guarantees (article 3), liability (article 21), 
intellectual property rights (article 24), confidentiality (article 13), and disputes and 
applicable law (article 33).
 
 
Article 33 Disputes and applicable law  
 
33.1 Any dispute between the Parties in relation to the Contract will be submitted only 
to the competent court in the district of The Hague, unless the Parties agree on 
an alternative means of settlement at the time a dispute arises. 
 
33.2 The Contract is governed by Dutch law.

=== Document: annex - cv format ===
Annex – CV Format Tenderers are requested to submit summaries of the CVs of all key experts   using this template .  F or key experts ,   CVs  are limited to 5 pages  each.  Instructions in  italics  may be deleted. CURRICULUM VITAE (CV) General information Position  t itle and  n o. TEAM LEADER Name Insert full name Country of Citizenship/Residence Insert country of citizenship and residence Education  & training List college/university or other specialized education, giving names of educational institutions, dates attended, degree(s)/diploma(s) obtained Language s List language s and level of  proficiency  ( CEFR or  similar ) Employment record relevant to the assignment Starting with present position, list in reverse order. Please provide dates, name of employing organization, titles of positions held, types of activities performed and location of the assignment. Past employment that is not relevant to the assignment does not need to be included. Period Organization,  title/position, country Summary of activities performed relevant to the assignment e.g., May 2005  -  present e.g., Ministry of …, advisor/consultant ,  Colombia … … … … … … Adequacy for the assignment Please list experiences that specifically demonstrate adequacy for the assignment. With reference to prior work/assignments, describe how these experiences meet the preferred profile and assessment aspects outlined per expert in the Call for Action Experience Brief name of project, assignment or activity, and role during that project Description of  how assessment aspects are met  and value is added to the assignment e.g. ESIA for coastal protection project in  Cartagena, Colombia  Role: Senior social specialist … … … … …