=== Document: vs_20230227_rvo_qes_qew_annex 1_espd ===
Please wait... 
  
If this message is not eventually replaced by the proper contents of the document, your PDF 
viewer may not be able to display this type of document. 
  
You can upgrade to the latest version of Adobe Reader for Windows®, Mac, or Linux® by 
visiting  http://www.adobe.com/go/reader_download. 
  
For more assistance with Adobe Reader visit  http://www.adobe.com/go/acrreader. 
  
Windows is either a registered trademark or a trademark of Microsoft Corporation in the United States and/or other countries. Mac is a trademark 
of Apple Inc., registered in the United States and other countries. Linux is the registered trademark of Linus Torvalds in the U.S. and other 
countries.

=== Document: vs_20230227_rvo_qew_annex 2 reference contracts_f01 ===
A nnex   2 :    Reference contracts   Project: European tender  for expert support to the Netherlands Enterprise Agency in developing Areas for Offshore Wind Co mpany (Tenderer) : The contracting authority has set the following key competences that correspond to experience in essential aspects of the contract: Experience with providing expert support and/or technical consultancy services to governments and/or commercial developers for complex (technical) projects, related to the development of offshore wind  farms. Capability to advise on and/or draw (technical) Scopes of Work for the procurement  of  field studies as part of the site investigations to obtain data of the wind and water   conditions for the preliminary design and/or FEED of offshore wind farms. Capability to evaluate and/or review offers, project execution plans, reports and other deliverables of desk studies and field studies as part of the site investigations to obtain data of the wind and water conditions for the preliminary design and/or FEED of offshore wind farms . Key competence  For each competence fill in: □  Key competence number (1, 2, 3 or combination) □  Description of reference  assignment  (activities performed, results delivere d) □ Value of assignment  in EUR □ Commencement and end date of contract □ Contact data of referee: company name,  contact person,  telephone/email No. No. No. Tenderer declares that he has carried out at least one reference assignment  for each of the core competences listed above  that meets the following minimum requirements: The subject of the reference assignment must be comparable to the core competence in question. The reference assignment must have been executed or completed within the  five  ( 5 ) years prior to the closing date for the submission of tenders. If the Tenderer uses an assignment that is not yet  fully complete, then only the completed results of the ongoing assignment can be submitted for reference purposes: projected results cannot be taken into consideration. In case separate reference assignments are used to fulfil all three (3) key competences, the reference assignment should be at least:  EUR 100,000,-.   The combined total value of the reference assignment(s) must be at least:  EUR 250.000,-      This reference-assignment value must exclusively consist of the value of the aspects of the assignment that are equivalent to the services specified in this document. In case a series of separate yet significantly comparable assignments was carried out for the same client during the reference period, then the turnover of these separate assignments can be combined into a cumulative total. Assignments including one or more subcontractors can only be used as reference assignments if  the subcontractor(s) in question will be involved in the fulfilment of the Contract and if the Tenderer can and will make use of the knowledge and experience of the subcontractor(s) in question during the fulfilment of the assignment.

=== Document: vs_20230227_rvo_qew_annex 5 sow windwater expert support_f.02 ===
Date 2/27/2023 
Status Final 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Site Studies – Various Sites 1 & 2 
 
Expert support Wind & Water 
 
Annex 5 
 
Scope of Work 

 
  
 
 Page 2 of 15 
 
Colophon 
Project name Expert support Wind and Water Various sites 1 & 2  
Project number WOZ 
Version Final 
File name RVO_QEW_Annex 5 SoW Wind and Water Expert Support_F.02 
Project manager J.M. Dekker 
Contact Jacob.dekker@rvo.nl  
  
Annex(es)  
Author J.M. Dekker, G.A. van der Meulen 
Reviewed F.W.C. van Erp 
Approved M. Brijder 
 
 
  
 
 Page 3 of 15 
 
Contents 
 
Introduction .......................................................................................................... 4 
1. Project set-up ................................................................................................. 7 
2. Roles and Responsibilities ............................................................................... 10 
3. Schedule Key Dates upcoming W&W studies ..................................................... 14 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 Page 4 of 15 
 
Introduction  
Scope document 
This document details the Scope of Work (SoW) to provide RVO with Wind & Water 
(W&W) expert support services for a number of sites.  
 
Background 
The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate Policy is responsible for the legislative 
framework for the development of offshore wind farms in the Netherlands. Within this 
framework (a) (concession) tender(s) for subsidy for construction and operation of (a) 
wind farm(s) will be organized. As part of the tender documentation, the participants will 
receive an information package in which detailed information on the offshore site is 
included. Detailed information about soil and wind & water conditions at the site will be 
part of this information package. The Contracting Authority for this assignment is the 
Netherlands Enterprise Agency (Rijksdienst voor Ondernemend Nederland - RVO). 
 
Objective 
RVO has been requested to prepare and collect all site data required for commercial 
developers to prepare a competitive bid. In order to achieve the highest results from the 
site investigations, RVO intends to contract high quality experts who can support RVO in 
managing the site investigations. The objective of this tender is conclude an agreement 
with Tenderers who can support RVO on the different site investigations regarding 
contracting, quality control and operational support.  
 
RVO is looking for an expert support Contractor who can support RVO with managing the 
site investigations for potential future wind farm sites / zones, and who is able to support 
RVO with managing the interfaces between different site investigations.  
 
In this tender RVO is looking for expertise in the field of wind & water (W&W) 
investigations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 Page 5 of 15 
 
Site Description 
There are multiple  W&W site studies ongoing, and many studies (MC and MA) will be 
initiated in the upcoming future. The order in which the different W&W studies will be 
initiated is still being discussed with The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate policy, 
although a general outline is anticipated.  
 
As such, the potential s ites, contractor(s) will provide expert support for are the search 
areas as indicated in figure 1 (but not limited to): 
• Search area 3 
• Search area 6 
• Search area 7 
• Search area 8 
 
The expert services will not consider the full characterization of all the listed areas but will 
contain a selection of works. This selection can be adjusted due to the course of the 
execution of the WORK, to the needs and priority as set by the Contracting Authority.  
 
 
Figure 1: Site indication 
 
 

 
  
 
 Page 6 of 15 
 
Scope of Work 
 
The Contracting Authority intends to conclude the contract with one contractor.  
 
For the wind & water investigations of the future sites, the following expertise is requested 
from the expert support:  
1. Expertise with Metocean measuring campaigns (MC) (total of 3).  
2. Expertise performing duties as Offshore Client representatives during MCs (total of 
3).  
3. Expertise with Metocean assessment (total of 2) (Metocean Assessment - MA is a 
combination of the Metocean desk study, database and Wind Resource Assessment 
- WRA). 
 
The SoW is to provide RVO with 8.000 hours of experts support as indicated above.  
 
Main scope: 8.000  hours are specified for predetermined areas in figure 1. 
 
Optional scope 1:  1.000 hours of expert support. The 1.000 hour scope is not specified 
for predetermined areas or - investigations. RVO would like to use the 1.000 hours of 
expert support for a wide array of investigations/enquiries, which have yet to be 
determined. During the contract RVO might need support with a new study or help with a 
new tender for a new selected (demonstration) site. As such, RVO wishes to reserve the 
right to use the optional hours with some degree of flexibility. Using them for sites and 
studies not listed/specified in this SoW though related to wind and water investigations. 
The optional scope might be used (in part) by RVO, but might also not used. The use of 
the optional scope is to the discretion of RVO. 
 
Optional scope 2: 1.500 hours of expert support. The 1.500 hour optional scope can be 
required when RVO decides to initiate more MC’s and MA’s. 
 
Various sites in SOW 
The search areas included into this SoW for W&W expert support are: 
• Search area 3 
• Search area 6 
• Search area 7 
• Search area 8 
As mentioned, The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate will decide later in which 
order the sites will be developed. This tender focuses on expert support for the 
development of two of the aforementioned search areas. For now, the to be developed 
wind farm areas will be referred to as Various Site 1 (VS1) and Various Site 2 (VS2).The 
exact MC locations will be decided later as well, and in consultation with experts. RVO 
intends to execute a double campaign (MC) at larger windfarm sites combined with 1 MA. 
In this tender RVO intends to have expert support available for at least three (3) MC’s with 
the option for a fourth (4) MC, two (2) MA’s with the option of a third (3) MA’s depending 
on new policy and insights.  
 
A single MC (Metocean campaign) can be defined as a field wind and water campaign with 
various wind and water measuring instruments at one location. In our tenders these are 
mostly floating buoys with wind and water measurement instruments. For one MC location 
3 buoys are used; 2 measuring in the field and 1 serves as spare buoy. A Metocean 
campaign has a typical duration of approximately 2 years. For more details and example 
data and reports please look at: https://offshorewind.rvo.nl/.  
 
The SoW has been subdivided into the following works: 
 
  
 
 Page 7 of 15 
 
 
1). Providing expert support for MCs: 
 
Tasks of expert support for the Metocean campaign include (but are not limited to): 
- Support with preparing tenders for MC’s. 
- Evaluation of proposals of the tender 
- Review project documentation 
- Give input/feedback in meetings with contractor(s) 
- Make notes in project meetings   
- Review data (monthly) 
- Review other deliverables  
- (Data) management activities 
- Other tasks related to the project 
 
 
2). Providing offshore client representatives (OCR) during MCs: 
 
Tasks of OCRS include (but are not limited to): 
- Presence during buoy deployments  
- Overseeing buoy modification (at location) 
- Presence during buoy swaps and buoy recovery 
- Controlling role - works are executed according to project documentation and 
safety standards 
- Play a role in field reporting between contractor and RVO (End of Cruise reports) 
Participate and contribute in various project meetings (e.g. close out meetings) 
regarding QHSE during mobilizations and operations. 
 
3). Providing expert support for MAs: 
 
Tasks of expert support for the Metocean assessment (include but are not limited to): 
- Support with preparing tender documents 
- Evaluation of proposals of the tender 
- Give input/feedback in meetings with contractor(s) 
- Data management activities 
- Examination and verification contractor work 
- Other tasks related to the project 
 
4). Optional scope 1:  
 
1000 Hours that are reserved for support for new unforeseen developments, like helping 
with a tender or support for a wind and water study for a new wind farm 
 
5). Optional scope 2:  
 
The 1.500 hour optional scope can be required when RVO decides to initiate more MC’s. 
1. Project set-up  
The W&W package in will contain the site characterisation studies as indicated by the red 
outline in 2.  
 
General e xpert support will comprise of supporting RVO with selecting a  contractors, 
assessing study/campaign plans and quality assurance in relation to reporting and provided 
deliverables (data/reports) for the separate parts of the W&W site studies. 
 
 
  
 
 Page 8 of 15 
 
Included in the Wind and Water studies are the MC and  the MA. T he latter being a 
combination of the Metocean desk study , the wind resource assessment and 
creation/verification of the metocean data-base. 
 
The contractor providing expert support will also de liver a lead expert  managing the 
interfaces between the different studies and the different site study Contractors.  
 
 
Figure 2: Wind and Water site characterisation package 
RVO will manage the wind and water site characterisation for the different sites, hereafter 
called PROJECT . Expert support will be required to assist the RVO team with in -depth 
knowledge. 
 
To visualise the PROJECT team set up an organization chart is presented in 3.  
 
 
Figure 3: Organisation chart W&W studies 
RVO - Wind and Water Package
Package Manager
Metocean 
measuring campaign 
RVO Project 
manager 
Contractor
Project team
Expert Support
Offshore Repl
Expert support 
Specialist
Metocean 
Assessment
RVO Project 
manager
Contractor
Project team
Expert support
Specialist
Expert support
Specialist
 
  
 
 Page 9 of 15 
 
Items marked in red are presenting the areas where in-depth knowledge support by 
external experts is requested by means of this SOW.  
 
The PROJECT organisation will be built under supervision of a package manager from 
RVO. The package manager will be responsible for interfaces between studies, overall 
planning and overall budget.   
 
In addition to the package manager from RVO there will be multiple RVO project 
managers assigned to the PROJECT to manage the individual studies. A single RVO 
project manager can be assigned to multiple studies and can be adjusted during the 
PROJECT. 
 
The expert support Contractor is expected to supply lead expert(s) and specialists in the 
sectors as presented in 3. The lead expert will need overall knowledge to participate into 
the different studies and to advise the RVO package manager where necessary. The main 
task of the lead expert will consist of interfacing between the studies. For in-depth 
discussions, reviews and support through the PROJECT the lead expert (and the RVO 
project managers) can call in the specialist experts. For detailed roles and responsibilities 
of the requested expert support reference is made to section 2 of this SOW. 
 
Aim of the project set up as described is to optimize the interfaces and optimise the use 
of the specialist knowledge. 
 
During the execution of the PROJECT all the communication between the different parties 
as described above and site study Contractors will be managed by the RVO project 
manager. The communication lines are visualised Figure 4.. 
 
 
Figure 4: Communication lines 
    
Note: If required during the PROJECT direct communication lines can be established 
between the Experts and site study Contractors upon discretion of the RVO project 
manager(s).    
RVO 
Project 
Manager 
RVO 
Package 
manager 
Study 
Contractors
Lead 
Expert
Experts
 
  
 
 Page 10 of 15 
 
2. Roles and Responsibilities  
This section describes the roles and responsibilities for the expert support during the 
PROJECT. 
 
Table 1: Hours for the main and optional Scope of Work, divided per required expertise. 
Role Hours main scope 
(8.000 hours) 
Hours optional  
scope 1  (1000 
hours) 
Hours optional  
scope 2 (1000 
hours) 
Lead expert 1000 
1000 1500 
Specialists Expert 
Metocean measuring 
campaign 
3500 
Client representatives 1500 
Specialists Expert 
Metocean assessment 2000 
Total amount  10.500 
 
Lead expert (1000 hours in main scope)  
This expert must have knowledge in both Metocean assessments (MA: metocean desk 
studies (MDS) and wind resource assessments (WRA))and Metocean campaigns (MC). 
The lead expert shall be capable to participate during the calls as representative of all 
specialist experts. The lead expert should be able to answer questions related to the 
studies or be able to capture the essence and transfer them to the experts to arrange 
follow up.  
 
To improve interfaces and consistency it is important that a single lead expert will 
supervise and participate in all studies together with the RVO project managers.  
 
If required a deputy (temporary) lead expert can be assigned to support the lead expert 
during absence or when workload requires.  
 
Required know-how; the lead expert will need to have general knowledge regarding MCs 
and WRAs preferably within the North Sea. For detailed in-depth knowledge the lead 
expert can consult the specialist experts in the team, but the lead expert will need the 
following required know-how; 
 
a. Project management and interface skills; 
b. The general meteorological and oceanographic conditions preferably in the North 
Sea; 
c. State of the art methods and equipment for metocean data acquisition by using 
LiDAR based measuring systems; 
d. Insight in the metocean data required for wind farm engineering design and 
planning of vessel operations; 
e. Assessing data of MCs (meteorology, physics). 
 
Activities and responsibilities (but not limited to) 
• Participate in meetings related to Wind resource assessment, MCs, Metocean desk 
study and offshore operations; 
• Help define strategy for future MCs and MAs and preparation of associated 
procurement documents; 
• During the meetings it is expected that the lead expert can represent the expert 
group and participate in discussions;  
• Manage interfaces between studies, experts and RVO; 
 
  
 
 Page 11 of 15 
 
• The lead expert will have to share information between the teams so that  all 
experts have all the required information. When questions arise the lead expert 
will arrange follow up with the correct party;  
• Quality assurance and quality control;  
• Participate in webinars; 
• Drafting the scope of work for contractors to execute the studies; 
• Assessing the contractor’s bids.  
 
Expert support contractors are requested to offer one senior expert for the lead expert 
position. Additional experts offered will be assessed as back-up experts.   
 
Specialist Expert Metocean measuring campaign (3500 hours in main 
scope) 
RVO is considering to contract site study Contractor(s) to execute MCs for VS1 and VS2 
with multiple floating LiDAR systems. The datasets and reports will (generally) cover 
monthly periods, a yearly (12 months) dataset accompanied with a post-processing 
report,  and a two year (24-months) dataset accompanied with a post-processing report.  
Support during tender process for the MC is included in this SOW.  
 
The expert(s) must have experience in acquiring metocean data for offshore wind farms, 
preferably in the North Sea. 
 
Required know-how: 
a. The meteorological and oceanographic conditions in the North Sea; 
b. State of the art methods and equipment for metocean data acquisition by 
using LiDAR based measuring systems; 
c. Insight in the metocean data required for wind farm engineering design 
and planning of vessel operations; 
d. Assessing and interpretation of data of metocean measuring campaigns 
(meteorology, physics). 
 
Activities (but not limited to): 
• Help define strategy for future MCs and MAs and preparation of 
associated tender documents; 
• Review and evaluate proposals of the MC tender; 
• Support in managing the MC: check the planning, assist in document 
control (including check on required actions from progress meetings); 
• Review of data and (validation) reports (certification) of the deployed 
metocean systems;  
• Quality assurance and quality control including providing a Statement of 
Compliance as a quality certificate that the metocean data is in 
conformance with industry standards and fir for purpose, after review of 
the data and data (validation) reports; 
• Attend progress meetings with the MC contractor; 
• Disclosure of information to the market (publication at 
offshorewind.rvo.nl, contribution to the project and site description, 
market questions, webinars, etc.). 
 
 
 
Offshore Client representatives (1500 hours in main scope) 
The offshore experts must have a training as Client REP, understanding of contract law, 
project documentation and HSE with a valid BOSIET and medical (or equal) as minimum. 
 
Required know-how: 
 
  
 
 Page 12 of 15 
 
a. Method Statements for deploying / recovering / lifting / towing 
buoys/platforms; 
b. State of the art methods and equipment for metocean data acquisition by 
using LiDAR based measuring systems. 
c. QHSE (Quality, health, Safety, Environment) within offshore environment 
 
Activities (but not limited to): 
• Review of Method Statements, Operational reports and other 
documentation from the MC Contractor; 
• Attending kick-off meetings at locations before operations for deployment 
or recovery of buoys; 
• Presence as Client Representative during offshore operations for 
maintenance, deployment, recovery or inspections or other of the 
metocean buoy(s); 
• Reporting on the operations. 
 
The offshore operations are usually planned at short notice and are mostly single day work 
executed with small vessels. Expert contractors are requested to offer five available 
offshore client representatives (OCR’s) . Additional OCR’s will be assessed as back-up 
OCR’s. 
  
Specialist Expert Metocean assessment (2000 hours in main scope)  
The purpose of the metocean assessment (MA) is to provide the meteorological and 
oceanographic (metocean) conditions for business case calculations and to serve as input 
for the design, installation and maintenance of wind turbines, inter array cables, 
substations and their support structures at planned Wind Farm Zones.  
 
The analysis is based on the best available data sources, to be carried out with state-of-
the-art methods. The results (i.e. tables, graphs) will be made available through reports 
and a digital metocean database that will enable obtaining output at any requested (x, y) 
location within the site boundaries.  
 
The Wind Resource Assessment component of the MA shall provide data that can be used as 
an input by potential wind farm developers for future wind farm modelling, energy yield 
assessments and business case calculations for the offshore wind farm to be developed. 
 
Required know-how: 
a. Assessing and interpreting data and wind resources of metocean 
measuring campaigns (meteorology, physics); 
b. Assessing the wind climate of the North Sea; 
c. Wave and current modelling and maximum wind and wave conditions and 
extreme value analysis; 
d. Insight in the metocean data required for wind farm engineering design; 
e. Preferably know how of (floating) LiDAR based measurements and 
resource assessments. 
 
Activities (but not limited to): 
• Updating and preparing the procurement documents for the metocean 
assessment tender; 
• Help define strategy for future MCs and MAs and preparation of 
associated procurement documents; 
• Review and evaluate proposals of the metocean assessment tender; 
• Technical support in the execution of the metocean assessment and 
database by the Contractor;  
• Review of the (draft) reports of the metocean assessment; 
 
  
 
 Page 13 of 15 
 
• Disclosure of information to the market (publication at 
offshorewind.rvo.nl, contribution to the project and site description, 
market questions, webinars, etc.). 
 
 
 
Table 2: required experts for Scope of Work 
Role amount of experts 
(junior, medior, 
senior) 
Required 
amount of senior 
experts 
available offshore 
client representative 
Lead expert* 1 1 - 
Metocean campaign 1 or more 1 or more - 
Metocean assessment 1 or more 1 or more - 
PM support** None or more - - 
Client representatives - - 5 
*the lead expert can take multiple roles  
** These persons will not be assessed 
 
The core team of experts should consist of minimum 2 and maximum 6 experts with a 
minimum of 2 and a maximum of 5 senior experts. 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 Page 14 of 15 
 
3. Schedule Key Dates upcoming W&W studies 
 
Table 3: Schedule and interfaces related to the delivery of the Metocean campaign, offshore client representatives and Metocean Assessments. 
Metocean 
Campaign 
(MC)/Metocean 
Assessment (MA) 
Estimated Schedule for 
delivery (estimated) 
Various Site   Task included in SoW  
Providing expert support for Metocean Campaign 
     
MC *  2023 VS1+VS2 Creating tender documents 
MC * 2024 VS1+VS2 Evaluation of proposals 
MC * 2024 VS1+VS2 Project documentation review 
MC * 2025-2026 VS1+VS2 Review data and reports (monthly review) + (yearly review) 
MC * 2025-2026 VS1+VS2 Join progress and project meetings 
Providing Client Representatives 
MC * 2025-2026 VS1+VS2 Buoy deployment, modification, exchange and recovery 
Providing expert support for Metocean Assessment 
MA 2025 VS1+VS2 Creating tender documents 
MA 2025 VS1+VS2 Evaluation of proposals 
MA 2026 VS1+VS2 Project documentation review 
MA 2027 VS1+VS2 Examination and verification contractor work 
MA 2027 VS1+VS2 Join progress and project meetings 
* Note that this envelopes three (or four) Metocean Campaigns (likely) executed/ongoing simultaneously 
This table provides an estimation of the dates. Tenders cannot derive any rights from the provided information.  
 
  
 
 Page 15 of 15

=== Document: vs_20230227_rvo_qew_annex 6-i-contract_f.01 ===
Service agreement 202212114 Expert Support developing Areas for Offshore Wind 
 
1 
Public service contract (ARVODI 2018) for Wind & Water expert support to the 
Netherlands Enterprise Agency for site studies for Various Site 1 and Various Site 2 for 
offshore wind development 
Contract number:  202212114/ WOZ2230072 
 
The undersigned: 
 
1. The State of the Netherlands, which has its seat in The Hague,  
represented by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Climate Policy, 
legally represented in this matter by Barto Piersma, Director of National Programmes of the 
Netherlands Enterprise Agency,  
hereinafter referred to as the Contracting Authority, 
 
and 
 
2. [Contractor’s full name and legal form],  
which has its registered office in …, legally represented in this matter by 
... [and ...] [signatory’s name], hereinafter referred to as the Contractor, 
 
WHEREAS: 
 
– The Contracting Authority wishes, in relation to the execution of Work for Wind & Water 
expert support to the Netherlands Enterprise Agency in developing for site studies for 
Various Site 1 and Various Site 2 for offshore wind development; 
– The Contracting Authority has conducted an EU tender procedure for the selection of a 
 party to this Agreement on the basis of the Tender Document and subject to the Public 
 Procurement Act 2012; 
– The Contractor submitted a tender on [day month year]; 
– The Contracting Authority has awarded the contract to the Contractor based on this tender; 
– The Contractor has sufficiently familiarised itself with what the Contracting Authority wishes 
to achieve; 
– The Parties wish to lay down the ensuing legal relationship in a written Contract; 
 
AGREE AS FOLLOWS:  
 
A number of terms in this Contract are written with initial capitals. The meanings of these terms 
are defined in article 1 of the General Government Terms and Conditions for Public Service 
Contracts 2018 (ARVODI 2018). 
 
1. Object of the Contract 
 
1.1 The Contracting Authority hereby commissions the Contractor to support the Netherlands 
Enterprise Agency with expert knowledge for Wind & Water related site characterization as 
described in the quotation submitted by the Contractor on [date], based on the Tender 
Document issued by the Contracting Authority on [date] (ref. 202212114), in so far as this 
Contract does not contain any provisions to the contrary. The Contractor hereby agrees to 
perform these Services. 
 
1.2 The following documents are an integral part of this Contract. In the event of 
inconsistencies, a higher ranked document takes precedence over a lower ranked 
document: 
 1.3 this document; 
2.  the Memorandums of Information;  
 3.  the Tender Document including the Annexes    
 4.  the ARVODI 2018;  
5.  the tender issued by the Contractor to the Contracting Authority. 
 
 
 
Service agreement 202212114 Expert Support developing Areas for Offshore Wind 
 
2 
 
2. Formation and duration of the Contract 
 
2.1 The Contracting Authority intends to conclude Contracts for the period from 24 May, 2023 
to May, 2027. 
 
3. Price and other financial provisions 
 
3.1 The Contractor will invoice retrospectively, based on the number of hours per month 
actually worked and a the daily hourly rates of  
€…  for a Senior expert 
 €…  for a Medior expert 
 €…  for a Junior expert 
€…  for an offshore client representative 
 (excluding VAT and including travel, accommodation and any other costs).  
 
3.2 It is expressly agreed that if the Contractor does not charge VAT but some or all of the 
Services are not exempt from VAT, the Contracting Authority will not be liable to pay the 
VAT in question. 
 
3.3 The fee covers all Services to be performed by the Contractor under this Contract, plus any 
materials needed for this purpose. International travel costs will be reimbursed (economy 
class). Other costs (when travelling abroad) can be reimbursed to a maximum of the EC 
per diem rates. 
 
3.4 Indexation 
 The agreed rates are fixed at least until May 1, 2024. Requests for indexation can be 
submitted only once a year, exclusively in the month of October. Before and after this 
month requests for indexation for the upcoming year will not be considered. Requests for 
indexation must be sent to the following email address: contractmanagement@RVO.nl. 
With the mention of ‘IUC202212114’ in the subject title. 
 
The prices and rates can be adjusted in line with the index figure set by Statistics 
Netherlands (CBS Statline) applicable to collectively negotiated hourly wages (including 
special bonuses) in the corporate-services category (M Specialistische zakelijke diensten 
(specialised commercial services). For this purpose, the figure for the preceding month May 
2023 will be used, with the index for the starting date of the contract May 2023 being set 
at 100%. 
 
Contractor must submit a specified request for indexation together with a print of the 
information form Statistics Netherlands and make reference to the Contract with 
Contracting Authority concert. The request will contain the old prices/rates versus the new 
prices and rates. 
 
Upon receipt of the request Contracting Authority will send a confirmation to the Contractor 
if the request is granted. 
 
The Contracting Authority reserves the right to refuse to process any proposal for 
indexation that is submitted too late. 
 
3.5 Payment will be made once the results of the Services have been accepted. 
 
3.6 Invoicing by the Contractor must submit invoices electronically in the manner prescribed in 
the tender document.  
 The following reference number should be stated on the invoices: WOZ2230072 
 
 
4. Contacts / project managers 
 
 
Service agreement 202212114 Expert Support developing Areas for Offshore Wind 
 
3 
4.1 The Contracting Authority’s contact is …...  
The Contractor’s contact is. 
 
4.2 Notwithstanding the provisions of article 10.2 of the ARVODI 2018, the contacts named 
above cannot make legally binding agreements on the Parties’ behalf. 
 
5. Time and place 
 
5.1       In principle, the Services will be performed at the Contractor’s offices. 
 
6. Other Terms and Conditions 
 
6.1 This Contract is governed exclusively by the General Government Terms and Conditions for 
Public Service Contracts 2018 (ARVODI 2018) [(see Annex 8)], [of which the Parties have 
already received a copy,] in so far as this Contract does not contain any provisions to the 
contrary. Any general and special terms and conditions drawn up by the Contractor do not 
apply to this Contract. 
 
6.2  If the duty of confidentiality imposed on the Contractor and its Staff under article 13 of the 
ARVODI 2018 is breached, the Contractor will be liable to pay the Contracting Authority a 
penalty of € 15,000,--per event. 
 
6.3  Contractor will ensure that no situation arises during the execution of the agreement that 
entails a possible conflict of interest as described in paragraph 3.5 of the tender document. 
The Contractor will take all necessary measures to this end. 
 
6.4  Article 19 of the ARVODI 2018 does not apply. 
 
6.5  In addition to article 21 of the ARVODI 2018, the Contractor indemnifies the Contracting 
Authority against any claims for damages brought by third parties as a result of its failure 
to discharge its obligations as referred to in article 21.3 of the ARVODI 2018. The liability 
amounts set out in article 21.3 of the ARVODI 2018 apply mutatis mutandis. 
 
7. User rights 
 
Article 24.3 will be changed as follows: 
In so far as the results of the Services performed are achieved partly or wholly using 
existing intellectual property rights that do not accrue to the Contracting Authority, such as 
intellectual property including but not limited to know-how and databases, and any rights 
thereto {either registered or not} in existence prior to this Contract, the Contractor grants 
the Contracting Authority a non-exclusive and irrevocable right of use for an indefinite 
period. In such an event, the Contractor guarantees that it is entitled to grant the aforesaid 
right of use. This right of use of the Contracting Authority includes the right to to publish or 
reproduce the results of the Services, or have them published or reproduced, which right 
the Contracting Authority accepts, such in the widest sense, regardless of the method of 
use or reproduction and regardless of whether such use or method of reproduction is 
known when this Contract is signed. 
 
8. Declaration of integrity 
 
The Contractor hereby declares that it has not offered or given members of the Contracting 
Authority’s Staff any benefit in order to obtain the contract nor arranged for them to be 
offered or given any such benefit. It undertakes not to do so in the future with a view to 
inducing any members of the Contracting Authority’s Staff to perform or refrain from 
performing any act. 
 
9. Final provisions 
 
 
Service agreement 202212114 Expert Support developing Areas for Offshore Wind 
 
4 
9.1 Any derogations from this Contract are binding only if they have been expressly agreed by 
the Parties in writing. 
 
9.2 Any written or oral agreements previously made by the Parties about the Services that are 
the object of this Contract are nullified by the signature of this Contract. 
 
Done on the later of the two dates stated below and signed in duplicate. 
 
The Hague, [date] … .........   [place, date] …….. .........  
 
For the Minister of Economic Affairs   For [Contractor’s name] 
and Climate Policy, and commissioned by 
Barto Piersma, Director of National  
Programmes of the Netherlands Enterprise 
Agency: 
 
 
 
 
 
Jan van Putten    [signatory’s name] 
Team Manager Procurement Office    [signatory’s position 
 
 
 
 
 
Schedules: 
-  Memorandum of Information; 
-  Tender Document including the Annexes; 
-  ARVODI 2018; 
-  Tender issued by the Contractor

=== Document: vs_20230227_rvo_qew_annex 7_non-disclosure agreement_f.01 ===
1 van 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-Disclosure Agreement 
 
 
 
 
The undersigned 
  
   
 
 Is involved in providing expert support to RVO in managing the site studies for   
 
 ______________________________________________________________ 
 
• is aware that equal treatment is one of the principles of the procurement process for the above 
mentioned site studies, and that it is therefore important that all of the – potential – bidders are 
treated in the same way and receive the same information, 
 
• is aware that all information provided by RVO or obtained during the Work is considered to be 
confidential, and observes article 6.3 of the Contract Expert Support ……………. 
 
• and therefore states without reservation: 
 
• to observe strict confidentiality with respect to all non-public OR unpublished information that 
Contractor, subcontractor and its personnel acquire within the scope of this assignment; 
 
• not to make any improper use of the information provided in confidentiality and/or non-public 
information and not to use this information in one’s own interest or that of a third party, 
 
• not to have any contact in the course of a procurement procedure with potential bidders regarding 
the contents or the procurement procedure, 
 
• to exercise the greatest possible care with respect to the confidentiality, 
 
• not to have any contact during the procurement procedure or during the execution of the above 
mentioned site studies with third parties regarding the information provided, unless this occurs at 
the request of the Contracting Authority e.g. at consultation meetings organized by RVO.  
 
 
 
 
 
Place:         Date: 
 
Name:   
 
 
Signature: