=== Document: appendix 01 european single procurement document ===
Please wait... 
  
If this message is not eventually replaced by the proper contents of the document, your PDF 
viewer may not be able to display this type of document. 
  
You can upgrade to the latest version of Adobe Reader for Windows®, Mac, or Linux® by 
visiting  http://www.adobe.com/go/reader_download. 
  
For more assistance with Adobe Reader visit  http://www.adobe.com/go/acrreader. 
  
Windows is either a registered trademark or a trademark of Microsoft Corporation in the United States and/or other countries. Mac is a trademark 
of Apple Inc., registered in the United States and other countries. Linux is the registered trademark of Linus Torvalds in the U.S. and other 
countries.

=== Document: appendix 03 draft framework agreement ===
Framework Agreement  relating to  Market Intelligence studies in the sector   [ Coffee and Cocoa ][ Fresh Fruit and Vegetables ]   [ Natural Ingredients ]   [ Processed Fruit and Vegetables and Edible Nuts ]   [ Grains Pulses and Oilseeds ]   [ Spices and Herbs ] Lot: .. IUC number:  202206106 The undersigned: 1 .  The State of the Netherlands, which has its seat in The Hague,  represented by the  Minister of Economic Affairs for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy ,  legally  represented in this matter by   [ signatory’s name and position ] , hereinafter referred to as the Contracting Authority, and 2.  [ Contractor’s full name and legal form ] ,   which has its  registered  office in  … ,   legally represented in this matter by ...  [ and   ... ]  [ signatory’s name ],   hereinafter referred to as the Contractor, WHEREAS: The Contracting Authority wishes, in relation to the performance of Services in the area of   Market Intelligence studies , to agree fixed terms for a certain period with  one  service provider ; To  this end, the Contracting Authority wishes to conclude a  F ramework  A greement  having a term of  four  years ,  with a term of  three  years with  one  optional extension   of  one  year ,  ( hereafter referred to as :  ‘the Framework  Agreement’ ) ,  laying down the conditions applicable to all contracts for the performance of Services to be awarded by the Contracting Authority during the said term; An EU contract award procedure for the selection of Parties to this framework agreement has been conducted on the basis of the  Tender  Document and subject to the Public Procurement Act 2012; This Framework Agreement lays down the conditions that apply to all Further Agreements for the performance of Services that the Contracting Authority intends to award during the term of this Framework Agreement .   AGREE AS FOLLOWS: A number of terms in  t his  Framework  Agreement  are written with initial capitals. These terms are defined in article 1 of the General Government Terms and Conditions for Publ ic Service Contracts  201 8   (ARVODI 201 8 ). In derogation therefrom or in addition thereto, the following terms are defined as follows for the purposes of  this  Framework  Agreement : Tender  Document:  the Contracting Authority’s document dated  15 August 2022 , which describes and explains participation in the Framework Agreement for the performance of Services during a certain period, the tender procedure to be followed and the selection and award criteria. Services :  the work t hat t he Contractor is to perform for the Contracting Authority  under the terms  of a  Further Agreement  concluded on the basis of  this  Framework  Agreement  in the area of  [ lot x as defined in the tender documentation ] .    Tender :  the tender dated   xxx , submitted by the Contractor on the basis of the  Tender  Document in the context of the  EU contract  award procedure . Further Agreement :   the contract between the Contracting Authority and the Contractor in accordance with the request for offer of which the Contracting Authority may award the Contractor contracts for the performance of Services during the term of this Framework Agreement. Quotation :  an offer to perform Services submitted by the Contractor to the Contracting Authority in response to a Request for Quotations under this  Framework Agreement . Request for Quotations :  an invitation by the Contracting Authority under  this  Framework  Agreement  to all Framework Contractors to submit a Quotatio n for a public service contract. Framework Contractor :   a tenderer selected to be Party to the Framework Agreement relating to the performance of Services in the area of [ lot x as defined in the tender documentation ]. 1. Object of the  Framework  Agreement 1.1  During the term of  this  Framework  Agreement  the Contracting Authority may issue Requests for Quotations for  Further Agreements  to perform Services. In response to the Request for Quotations, the Contractor must submit a Quotation that is not less favourable than the Tender submitted by the Contractor. If the  Further Agreement  referred to in the Request for Quotations is awarded by the Contracting Authority to the Contractor on the basis of the award criteria for the further award stipulated in the  Tender  Document, the Contractor must perform that  Further Agreement  in accordance with the conditions of  this  Framework  Agreement . To this end, the Contractor must in that case conclude a  Further Agreement  with the Contracting Authority. 1.2 The following documents  are an integral part of  t his  Framework  Agreement . In the event of inconsistencies, a higher ranked document takes precedence over a lower ranked document: 1 .  this  document  including schedules ; 2 . the  Memorandum of  Information ,  [ date ] ; 3 . the  Memorandum of  Information ,  [ date ] ; 4 .  the  Tender  D ocument; 5 .  the ARVODI - 2018; 6 .  the  T ender issued   by the Contractor to the Contracting Authority on  [ date ] ,  1.3  The Contracting Authority is entitled but not obliged to award contracts for the performance of Services during the term of  this  Framework  Agreement . The Contractor cannot therefore claim any right whatsoever to be awarded contracts for the performance of Services during the term of  this  Framework  Agreement .   1.4 The terms of  this  Framework  Agreement  apply in full to all  Further Agreement s   concluded during the term of  this  Framework  Agreement  between the Contracting Authority and the Contractor concerning contracts for the performance of Services specified in a Request for Quotations, unless a  Further Agreement  expressly departs from  this  Framework  Agreement . 1.5 A  Further Agreement  states the specific Services to which it relates and its duration. 2. Duration of the  Framework Agreement 2.1 This  Framework  Agreement  enters into force on  [ date ] ,   and has an initial contract period of  of 3 years, including a unilateral option for the Contracting Authority to extend the contract by a maximum of 1 year per lot .   The total duration of the  Contract  is therefore maximum  of four years. The Contracting Authority must notify the Contractor in writing no later than [ … ] months before the expiry of the initial / then applicable term of the Framework Agreement if it intends to exercise its option to extend the Framework Agreement. If the Contracting Authority does not exercise its option to extend the Framework Agreement, it will end automatically upon expiry of the term referred to in the first sentence of this article / of the term applicable at that time. Termination of  this  Framework  Agreement  for whatever reason does not affect rights and obligations resulting from  Further Agreements . The terms of  this  Framework  Agreement  continue to apply to any  Further Agreements  remaining in force after  this  Framework  Agreement  has ended. 2.3  The duration of any  Further Agreements  awarded to the Contractor under  this  Framework  Agreement  will be stipulated in the individual  Further Agreements  for each contract for the performance of Services. 2.4 Contracting  A uthority is entitled to terminate this framework agreement prematurely as soon as the maximum value and/or amount of the contract is reached, without any further compensation. Contracting authority shall inform Contractor as soon as possible if and when he wants to invoke this right and he will observe a reasonable notice period. 3. Awarding f urther  a greements 3.1  The Contractor must submit a Quotation, having regard to the provisions of this Framework Agreement, within [ … ] working days of receipt of a standard Request for Quotations .  The Contracting Authority will not be required to pay to obtain a Quotation. The Quotation, including the fee, must comply with and may not be less favourable than the Tender submitted. 4. Price and other financial provisions 4.1 The  maximum  value of the  F r amework  A greement is  for lot  x    xxxx  euro /… . All  Further Agreements  will state that the Contractor will perform the Services specified therein for a  fixed price   of the 18 deliverables . Rates for additional work and study updates  will be performed fo r a fixed  daily  rate  of … . 4. 4 It is expressly agreed that if the Contractor  does not charge VAT  but some or all of the Services are not exempt from VAT, the Contracting Authority will not be liable to pay the VAT  in question . 4. 5 The  value  referred to in article 4.1  of this  Framework  Agreement  relates to all Services to be performed by the Contractor under the  Further Agreement  in question.  It includes the cost of  any materials needed for that purpose, any travel and accommodation costs, and any additional costs. It does not include VAT.  4. 6 The agreed rates are in any case fixed until January 1, 20 25 . Indexation requests can only be made once. Indexation requests should be sent to the following email address: contractmanagement@RVO.nl The prices and rates can be adjusted in accordance with the CBS Collective  Labor  Agreement wages per hour including special rewards, category business services. The monthly figure of the most recent published month is used for this, whereby the index figure of the month of the commencement date of the Contract is set at 100%. The Contractor must submit the application specified with a printout from the CBS- Statline  and make a reference in the application to the relevant Contract with the Client. The application includes a statement of the previous versus the new prices and rates. After receipt of the request, the Client will confirm to the Contractor whether this request has been approved. 4. 7 E - invoicing  The Contractor must send the invoices electronically to:   Rijksdienst   voor   Ondernemend  Nederland (RVO.nl) Government identification number:  <<OIN  nummer >> attn.  <<contact   person>> . The general terms and conditions that apply to this contract prescribe/contain a provision that invoices must be sent electronically (not in pdf). This can be done in  3  different ways: The invoicing portal of the Dutch government ; E-invoicing with your own (accounting) software package   through  Peppol ; E-invoicing through a service provider . For more information:  https://www.helpdesk-efactureren.nl/e-facturen-versturen   For questions regarding e-invoicing via the portal, please contact  helpdesk-efactureren@rvo.nl , 088-0424400, option 2. For questions regarding e-invoicing via an accounting program ( Peppol ), please contact   operations@peppolautoriteit.nl , 020-3697653. 4. 8 The paragraph concerning e - invoicing does not apply to companies located outside of the Netherlands. You must state the order number on your invoice. You can send your invoice by e-mail in PDF format to  pdffacturen@minezk.nl . 4. 9 Payment will be made once the Services performed in accordance with a  Further Agreement  have been received and accepted.  5. Contacts  /  P roject managers 5.1 The contact person of the Contracting Authority is   xxx The contact person of the Contractor is   xxx 5.2 At least  once per  year, the  contacts  of the two  P arties will hold consultations on the way in which  this  Framework  Agreement  is being implemented   (interim evaluation(s)). 5. 3   Notwithstan ding the provisions of article 10 .2 of the ARVODI 20 1 8 , the  contacts  cannot  make  legally binding  agreements on the P arties’ behalf. 6. Time and place 6.1  The work relating to the Services specified in a  Further Agreement  will be carried out at the place(s) stipulated in the  Further Agreement . 7. Other  Terms and Conditions 7.1 This  Framework  Agreement  and a contract for the performance of Services in accordance with a  Further Agreement  are govern ed exclusively by the ARVODI 201 8   ( already in  the  Parties ’ possession ), in so far as  this  Framework  Agreement  does not depart therefrom. Any general and special terms and conditions drawn up by the Contractor do not apply.  7.2 Without prejudice to the Contractor’s duty, as referred to in article 9 of the ARVODI 2018, to report to the Contracting Authority on the progress of the Services as often and in such a manner as the Contracting Authority deems necessary .  the Contractor must  submit  a progress report to the Contracting Authority’s contact manager  upon request for a maximum of twice per year.  The Contractor will also submit reports specified by the Contracting Authority, as often as the Contracting Authority demands. 8 . Declaration of integrity The Contractor affirms that it has not offered or given members of the Contracting Authority’s Staff any benefit in order to be selected to be party to this Framework Agreement or in order to obtain  Further Agreements  for the performance of Services, nor arranged for them to be offered or given any such benefit, nor will it offer or give any such benefit or arrange for any such benefit to be offered or given. It undertakes not to do so in the future with a view to inducing any members of the Contracting Authority’s Staff to perform or refrain from performing any act. 9 . Final provisions 9 .1 Any derogations from  this  Framework  Agreement  or a  Further Agreement  are binding only if they have been expressly agreed by the  Parties  in writing. 9 .2 Any written or oral agreements previously made by the  Parties  about the award of contracts for the performance of Services, whether under a  Further Agreement  or not, are nullified  by the signature of   this  Framework  Agreement . Done   and  signed in  duplicate . The Hague,  [ place ], [ date ]: [ date ]:   For the Minister of  Economic Affairs [ name Contractor ] and Climate Policy , and commissioned by   [ Contractor’s name ][ name of portfolio ] Jan van  Putten,    [ signatory’s  name ] Team  manager  Procurement Office     [ signatory’s position ] [ Schedule(s): … ]

=== Document: appendix 04 arvodi-2018 government terms and conditions ===
AVT18/BZ125884C 1  
General Government Terms and Conditions 
for Public Service Contracts 2018  
(ARVODI 2018) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adopted by order of  
the Prime Minister, 
Minister of General Affairs, 
of 3 May 2018, no. 3219106 
 
AVT18/BZ125884C 2  
I GENERAL 
Article 1 Definitions  
The following terms are written with initial capitals in these general terms and 
conditions and are defined as follows: 
1.1 Professional Errors: shortcomings such as mistakes, acts of carelessness, 
negligence, omissions and erroneous advice, which a competent and 
conscientious contractor would, in the given circumstances and assuming a 
normal degree of attention, competence and professionalism, not commit; 
1.2 Schedule: a document attached to the Contract which, when initialled by both 
Parties, forms an integral part of the Contract; 
1.3 Services: the work the Contractor is to perform for the Contracting Authority 
under the terms of the Contract; 
1.4 Contracting Authority: the State of the Netherlands or any other contracting 
authority using these general terms and conditions; 
1.5 Contractor: the counterparty of the Contracting Authority; 
1.6 Contract: the written agreement between the Contracting Authority and the 
Contractor to which the Terms and Conditions are declared to apply; 
1.7 Party: the Contracting Authority or Contractor, depending on the context; 
1.8 Contracting Authority’s Staff: the members of staff and/or assistants used by the 
Contracting Authority during the performance of the Contract; 
1.9 Contractor’s Staff: the members of staff and/or assistants used by the Contractor 
for the purpose of performing the Contract for whom the Contractor is 
responsible under the terms of the Contract; 
1.10 Terms and Conditions: these general terms and conditions, which apply to and 
form an integral part of the Contract.  
1.11 Working Day: calendar day, except weekends and generally recognised public 
holidays within the meaning of section 3, subsection 1 of the General Extension 
of Time Limits Act. 
Article 2 Application 
2.1 Amendments or additions to the Contract or derogations from the Terms and 
Conditions (or parts of them) are binding only if they have been explicitly agreed 
in writing by the Parties.  
2.2 In the event of inconsistency between the Dutch text of these Terms and 
Conditions and translations of them, the Dutch text prevails. 
 
AVT18/BZ125884C 3  
II PERFORMANCE OF THE CONTRACT 
Article 3 Guarantees given by the Contractor 
3.1 The Contractor guarantees that the Services to be provided by it or on its behalf 
meet the requirements laid down in the Contract. 
3.2 The Contractor guarantees that the Services to be provided by it or on its behalf 
will be performed in a professional manner. 
Article 4 Assessment and acceptance  
4.1 The Contracting Authority will assess the results of the Services within 30 days 
of the date of their delivery. If it decides that the results are satisfactory, it will 
notify the Contractor that they have been accepted. 
4.2 If the Contracting Authority decides that the results of the Services are 
unsatisfactory, it will notify the Contractor that they have not been accepted. 
4.3 The Contracting Authority may have the results of the Services assessed by 
third parties. 
4.4 If the Contracting Authority has not notified the Contractor within 30 days of the 
date of delivery of the Services, it will be deemed to have accepted the results. 
 
4.5 The Contracting Authority is not obliged to make any payment to the Contractor until the 
results have been accepted. 
 
Article 5 Place and time of performance 
 
 The Services will be performed at the time and place stated in the Contract. 
 
Article 6 Replacement of staff responsible for performing the Services 
 
6.1 The Contractor may temporarily or permanently replace staff who are 
responsible for performing the Services only by way of exception and with the 
prior consent of the Contracting Authority. The Contracting Authority will not 
withhold its consent without good reason and may attach conditions to its 
consent. The fees charged for the staff originally deployed may not be raised if 
they are replaced. 
 
6.2 If the Contracting Authority wishes to replace staff who are responsible for 
performing the Services, because it feels that this is either necessary or 
desirable for the proper performance of the Contract, the Contractor will comply 
with the Contracting Authority’s request. The fee charged for replacement staff 
will not be any higher than that laid down in the Contract for the staff replaced. 
 
6.3 If staff responsible for performing the Contract are replaced, the expertise, 
qualifications and experience of the replacement staff deployed by the 
Contractor must be at least equal to those of the original staff or must meet the 
criteria agreed by the Parties in this regard. 
AVT18/BZ125884C 4  
Article 7 Use of Contracting Authority’s property 
The Parties may agree that, in performing the Services, the Contractor may make use 
of property belonging to the Contracting Authority, which the Contracting Authority has 
lent to the Contractor for this purpose. The Contracting Authority may attach conditions 
to the loan of this property. 
Article 8 Subcontracting 
8.1 In performing the Contract, the Contractor may make use of third-party services 
only after it has obtained the Contracting Authority’s consent. The Contracting 
Authority will not withhold its consent without good reason. It may attach 
conditions to its consent. 
8.2 The fact that the Contracting Authority has given its consent does not affect the 
Contractor’s own responsibility and liability for discharging the obligations 
imposed on it under the Contract, and for discharging the obligations imposed on 
it as an employer under tax and social insurance law.
 
 
 
III RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN PARTIES AND SUPERVISION
 
Article 9 Progress reports 
 
The Contractor will report to the Contracting Authority on the progress of the work as 
often as and in a manner as the Contract prescribes, or as the Contracting Authority 
deems fit. 
Article 10 Contacts 
 
10.1 Each Party will designate a contact who will be responsible for maintaining 
contacts in relation to the performance of the Contract. The Parties will notify 
each other of the person they have appointed as their contact.
 
 
10.2 The contacts may represent and bind the Parties only as regards the 
performance of the Contract. They may not amend the Contract.  
 
Article 11 Supervisory/steering committee 
 
The Contract may provide for the formation of a supervisory or steering committee 
whose duties, powers and composition may be laid down in the Contract.  
 
Article 12 Method of notification 
 
12.1 Notifications given by one Party to the other, including undertakings and further 
agreements, that are relevant to the performance of the Contract are binding on 
the Parties only if they are given or confirmed in writing by an authorised person. 
 
12.2 ‘In writing’ is understood to include ‘electronically’, provided: 
a. the notification can be consulted by the addressee; 
AVT18/BZ125884C 5  
b. the authenticity of the notification is sufficiently guaranteed; and 
c. the identity of the sender can be determined with sufficient certainty. 
 
Article 13 Confidentiality 
 
13.1 The Contractor will not divulge in any way any information that comes to its 
knowledge in performing the Contract and which it knows or may reasonably be 
assumed to know is confidential, except in so far as it is compelled to divulge 
such information under a statutory regulation or court ruling. 
 
13.2 The Contractor will impose the same duty of confidentiality on its own Staff and 
guarantees that they will fulfil it. 
 
13.3 The Contractor will not divulge to third parties in any way the results of the 
Services performed or provide any information on the results to third parties 
without the Contracting Authority’s express consent. The Contracting Authority 
may attach conditions to such consent. 
 
13.4 After termination of the Contract, the Contractor must hand over to the 
Contracting Authority without delay, at the Contracting Authority’s first request, 
information that the Contractor has in its possession for the purpose of 
performing the Contract, with the exception of information that the Contractor is 
required to have in its possession on the basis of legislation and/or generally 
accepted professional rules applicable to the Contractor. 
 
13.5 If the Contractor breaches its duty of confidentiality, the Contracting Authority 
may impose a penalty, as laid down in the Contract. Payment of a penalty that is 
payable immediately does not discharge the Contractor from its liability for 
indemnifying any damage caused by the breach. 
 
Article 14 Processing of personal data 
 
14.1 In so far as the Contractor, as a processor within the meaning of the General 
Data Protection Regulation, processes personal data for the Contracting 
Authority in the framework of the implementation of the Personal Data 
Agreement, the Contractor guarantees the application of appropriate technical 
and organisational measures, so that processing meets the requirements of the 
General Data Protection Regulation and the protection of the data subjects is 
ensured. The Contractor will process personal data only for and on the basis of 
written instructions from the Contracting Authority, barring statutory rules to the 
contrary. 
 
14.2. The Parties will regulate the processing of personal data by the Contractor for 
the Contracting Authority by means of an agreement. 
 
Article 15 Security 
 
15.1 The Contractor will instruct the Contractor’s Staff involved in the performance of 
the work, in so far as the work is performed on the Contracting Authority’s 
premises, to comply with the Contracting Authority’s security procedures and 
AVT18/BZ125884C 6  
other rules. The Contracting Authority will inform the Contractor in good time 
about these procedures and rules. 
 
15.2  The Contracting Authority may require the Contractor to provide certificates of 
conduct for the Contractor’s Staff, at least three Working Days before work 
begins on the Contracting Authority’s premises. 
 
15.3 The Contracting Authority may carry out security checks on members of the 
Contractor’s Staff, in accordance with the rules usually applied by the 
Contracting Authority. The Contractor will lend its full cooperation to such 
checks. The Contracting Authority may, on the basis of the results of a security 
check, refuse to allow the person in question to work on the Contract, without 
giving any reasons.
 
 
 
IV FINANCIAL PROVISIONS 
 
Article 16 Payment and upward and downward contract variations 
 
16.1 The Contracting Authority will pay for the costs actually incurred and the hours 
actually worked by the Contractor, unless a fixed fee has been agreed in the 
Contract. 
 
16.2 Should any additional requirements stipulated by the Contracting Authority, any 
new information that is brought to the notice of the Contracting Authority or any 
changes to the statutory regulations applicable to the work in question lead to 
the work performed by the Contractor under the Contract becoming 
demonstrably more demanding or extensive, this additional work constitutes an 
upward contract variation for which the Contractor may charge a fee. Additional 
work or new information which the Contractor could have foreseen when the 
Contract was signed is not regarded as constituting an upward contract 
variation. If a Party regards a particular request as constituting an upward 
contract variation, it will notify the other Party thereof as quickly as possible. 
 
16.3 The Contractor will not start any additional work that constitutes an upward 
contract variation until it has received a written order to this effect from the 
Contracting Authority. In order to obtain such an order, the Contractor will issue 
a written quotation specifying the amount of additional work that is to be 
performed, its duration and cost. Any additional work performed by the 
Contractor will be subject to the provisions of the Contract, including those on 
fees and discounts, where relevant, in so far as these have not been amended 
by the Contracting Authority’s written order. When submitting a quotation, the 
Contractor may not impose terms and conditions that are either more detailed or 
more stringent than the original Terms and Conditions, unless it does so with the 
Contracting Authority’s consent.
 
 
16.4 The Contractor will always accept and carry out an order for additional work 
representing up to a maximum of 10% of the original Contract value. Such an 
order for additional work is subject to the provisions of the Contract. 
 
AVT18/BZ125884C 7  
16.5 Should any new information that is brought to the notice of the Contracting 
Authority or any changes to the statutory regulations applicable to the work in 
question lead to the work performed by the Contractor under the Contract 
becoming demonstrably less demanding or extensive, this constitutes a 
downward contract variation for which the Contracting Authority is entitled to a 
discount. If a Party regards a particular change as constituting a downward 
contract variation, it will notify the other Party thereof in writing as quickly as 
possible. If a fixed fee has been agreed, the Parties will consult to agree on the 
value of the discount, which will be deducted from the agreed fee. 
 
Article 17 Invoicing 
 
17.1 The Contractor will send the invoice electronically so that the Contracting 
Authority can receive and process it electronically, in accordance with the 
specifications issued by the Contracting Authority. 
 
17.2 The Contractor will send invoices to the Contracting Authority. Each invoice will 
state the date and number of the Contract and the relevant VAT charge. If 
applicable under article 4, the Contractor will enclose a copy of the notice of 
acceptance with the invoice, together with any other information requested by 
the Contracting Authority. 
 
 
17.3 If it has been agreed that the invoice will be based on the actual amount of time 
spent as calculated after the completion of the Contract, the Contractor will 
compile an itemised invoice in a format which the Contracting Authority is free to 
specify. The Contractor’s invoice will state the number of days and hours 
actually and necessarily spent on the Contract, as well as the relevant dates, 
and will also contain a brief description of the work performed, and of any travel 
and accommodation expenses if these are not included in the daily or hourly 
rates under the Contract. 
 
17.4 The Contractor will present separate invoices for any upward contract variations 
after the additional work in question has been completed and accepted by the 
Contracting Authority. The invoices will explicitly state the nature and amount of 
the additional work performed, which will be itemised on the basis of authentic 
documents. 
 
Article 18 Payment and invoice audits 
 
18.1 The Contracting Authority will pay the Contractor the amount owing under the 
Contract no later than 30 days of receiving the relevant invoice, provided it 
satisfies the provisions of the Contract. 
 
18.2 If the Contracting Authority fails without good reason to pay an invoice within 
the time limit stipulated in article 18.1, it will automatically be liable to pay: a. 
compensation as referred to in article 6:96, paragraph 4 of the Dutch Civil 
Code, and b. statutory interest as referred to in article 6:119b, paragraph 1 of 
the Dutch Civil Code. The compensation and interest will be payable on 
demand. 
 
 
AVT18/BZ125884C 8  
18.3 The Contracting Authority may instruct an accountant designated by the 
Contracting Authority, as referred to in article 2:393, paragraph 1 of the Dutch 
Civil Code, to audit the invoices submitted by the Contractor to determine their 
accuracy. The Contractor will allow the accountant to inspect its books and 
documents, and will supply him with any information he requests. This audit is 
confidential and does not involve any more than is necessary to check the 
invoices. The accountant will report as quickly as possible to both Parties. The 
Contracting Authority will pay the cost of the accountant’s audit, unless the 
latter’s work reveals that the invoices in question are not accurate or complete, 
in which case the Contractor will be liable for the cost of the inspection. 
 
18.4 The Contracting Authority may defer payment of an invoice or a portion thereof,  
about which the Parties have failed to reach agreement, for the duration of the 
accountant’s audit. The Contracting Authority will exercise this right only if it has 
reasonable doubts about the accuracy of the invoice in question. 
 
18.5 The Contractor is not entitled to suspend or terminate its work on account of the 
Contracting Authority’s failure to pay an invoice within the stipulated time limit, or 
if the Contracting Authority does not pay an invoice because it suspects that the 
invoice is inaccurate or because the Services have not been properly performed. 
 
Article 19 Advance 
 
19.1 If the Contracting Authority, for the purpose of performing the Contract, makes 
one or more payments for Services that have not yet been rendered, it may 
require the Contractor to issue the Contracting Authority with an on-demand 
bank guarantee prior to making the payment(s) in question, to the value of the 
payment(s) in question. The Contracting Authority will not be required to pay any 
of the cost of the guarantee.  
 
19.2 If the Contracting Authority does not accept certain Services within the stipulated 
time limit as a result of a failure that is attributable to the Contractor, the 
Contractor is liable to pay statutory interest on the advance for as long as the 
failure persists. 
 
19.3 The on-demand bank guarantee will be issued by a bank approved by the 
Contracting Authority, in accordance with the model enclosed with these Terms 
and Conditions (see Annexe 1). 
 
 
V NON-PERFORMANCE 
 
Article 20 Potential delays 
 
20.1 If there is any risk of the performance of the Services being delayed, the 
Contractor will immediately notify the Contracting Authority, explaining the 
reasons for and the consequences of the potential delay. The Contractor will 
also propose measures to avoid further delay. 
 
 
AVT18/BZ125884C 9  
20.2 Within 14 days of receiving the notification referred to in the preceding 
paragraph, the Contracting Authority will notify the Contractor whether or not it 
agrees with the proposed measures and the consequences described by the 
Contractor. Agreement does not imply any acceptance by the Contracting 
Authority of the cause of the potential delay, and does not affect any other rights 
or claims accruing to the Contracting Authority under the Contract and 
legislation. 
 
Article 21 Liability  
 
21.1 If one of the Parties fails to discharge its obligations under the Contract, the 
other Party may give notice of default. The defaulting Party is deemed to be 
immediately in default, however, if it is clear that there is no prospect 
whatsoever of it discharging the obligations in question within the stipulated time 
limit for reasons other than force majeure. The notice of default will be given in 
writing, and the defaulting Party will be given a reasonable period of time in 
which to discharge its obligations. This is a strict deadline. The defaulting Party 
is in default if it fails to discharge its obligations by the deadline set. 
 
21.2 The notice of default referred to in the preceding paragraph is not required if the 
time limit by which the agreed Services should have been performed has been 
extended prior to its expiry. If the defaulting Party fails to discharge its 
obligations as described in the preceding paragraph by the end of the extended 
time limit, the defaulting Party is held to be immediately in default as from that 
date. 
 
 
21.3 Unless agreed otherwise, a Party that imputably fails to discharge its obligations 
is liable to the other Party for any damage incurred by the other Party, on the 
understanding that liability is limited to the following amounts: 
− for Contracts whose total value is less than or equal to €50,000: €150,000 
per event and €300,000 for each year or part of a year that the Contract has 
been in force; 
− for Contracts whose total value is greater than €50,000 but less than or 
equal to €100,000: €300,000 per event and €500,000 for each year or part of 
a year that the Contract has been in force; 
− for Contracts whose total value is greater than €100,000 but less than or 
equal to €150,000: €500,000 per event and €1,000,000 for each year or part 
of a year that the Contract has been in force; 
− for Contracts whose total value is greater than €150,000 but less than or 
equal to €500,000: €1,500,000 per event and €3,000,000 for each year or 
part of a year that the Contract has been in force; 
− for Contracts whose total value is greater than €500,000: €3,000,000 per 
event and €5,000,000 for each year or part of a year that the Contract has 
been in force. 
 
Related events will be treated as a single event. 
 
The limitation of liability referred to above will not apply: 
a. in the event of third-party claims for compensation in respect of death or 
personal injury; 
AVT18/BZ125884C 10  
b. in the event of intent or gross negligence on the part of the other Party, the 
Contractor’s Staff or the Contracting Authority’s Staff; 
c. in the event of a breach of intellectual property rights as referred to in article 
24; 
d. in the event of an agreement concluded between the Parties under article 
14, paragraph 2: to claims for compensation in relation to failure to comply 
with that agreement, including any fines imposed by the supervisory 
authority. 
 
21.4 If, in performing the Services, the Contractor makes use of property belonging to 
the Contracting Authority as referred to in article 7, the Contractor is liable for 
any damage caused to such property. The limitation of liability set out in 
paragraph 3 applies mutatis mutandis. 
 
21.5 If the Contractor or third parties suffer damage, in whatever manner, as a result 
of using property belonging to the Contracting Authority as referred to in article 
7, the Contractor will bear the full expense and risk. The limitation of liability set 
out in paragraph 3 applies mutatis mutandis. 
 
21.6 The Contractor is liable for all obligations in respect of the Contractor’s Staff, 
including those arising under tax and social insurance law. The Contractor 
indemnifies the Contracting Authority against any liability in this connection. The 
limitation of liability referred to in paragraph 3 does not apply.
 
 
Article 22 Cancellation and notice of termination 
 
22.1 Without prejudice to the other provisions of the Contract, either Party may 
cancel the Contract in full or in part by registered letter, without recourse to the 
courts, if the other Party is in default or compliance is permanently or temporarily 
impossible, unless the breach does not warrant cancellation in view of its 
exceptional nature or limited importance.  
 
22.2 If one of the Parties is unable to discharge its obligations under the Contract as 
a result of force majeure, the other Party is entitled to cancel the Contract, 
subject to a reasonable period, in full or in part out of court by registered mail, 
without its action creating any entitlement to compensation, but no earlier than 
15 Working Days as from the date on which the circumstance that produced the 
force majeure arose. 
 
22.3 The term ‘force majeure’ is in any event understood not to include: staff 
shortages, strikes, staff illness, shortages of raw materials, transport problems, 
late delivery or the unsuitability of items required for the performance of the 
work, liquidity or solvency problems on the part of the Contractor or failures on 
the part of third parties engaged by the Contractor. 
 
22.4 The Contracting Authority may cancel the Contract forthwith out of court by 
registered mail, without being required to send any demand or notice of default, 
if the Contractor applies for or is granted a provisional or definitive suspension of 
payments, files for bankruptcy, is declared bankrupt, if its business is wound up, 
if it ceases trading, if a substantial proportion of its assets are seized, if it 
AVT18/BZ125884C 11  
undergoes a merger or a division or is dissolved, or if it is deemed on any other 
grounds to be no longer capable of discharging its obligations under the 
Contract. 
 
22.5 If the Contract is cancelled, the Contractor will repay any undue amounts 
already paid by the Contracting Authority, plus the statutory interest on those 
amounts from the date on which they were paid. If the Contract is partially 
cancelled, the Contractor only has to repay payments relating to the part of the 
contract that has been cancelled. 
 
22.6 In addition, the Contracting Authority may terminate the Contract at any time by 
giving notice of termination by registered mail. In such an event, the account 
between the Contracting Authority and the Contractor will be settled on the basis 
of the Services provided and costs reasonably incurred by the Contractor in 
carrying out the assignment in question and of any commitments reasonably 
entered into for the future for the purposes of the present Contract. The 
Contracting Authority is not obliged to compensate the Contractor in any way for 
the consequences of the termination of the Contract.
 
 
Article 23 Retention of right to demand performance 
 
The fact that one of the Parties omits to demand the performance of any provision of 
the Contract within a time limit set by the Contract does not affect its right to demand 
performance at a later date, unless the Party in question has expressly agreed to the 
non-performance in writing. 
 
 
VI MISCELLANEOUS
 
 
Article 24 Intellectual property rights 
 
24.1 Unless agreed otherwise, all copyrights that may be exercised in relation to the 
results of the Services performed by the Contractor accrue to the Contracting 
Authority, irrespective of where and when they may be exercised. Pursuant to 
the Contract, the Contractor assigns such intellectual property rights to the 
Contracting Authority as soon as they arise. The Contracting Authority hereby 
accepts the assignment of these rights. 
  
24.2 All database rights that may be exercised in relation to the results of the 
Services performed by the Contractor accrue to the Contracting Authority, 
irrespective of where and when they may be exercised. Pursuant to the 
Contract, the Contractor assigns such intellectual property rights to the 
Contracting Authority as soon as they arise. The Contracting Authority hereby 
accepts the assignment of these rights 
 
24.3 In so far as the results of the Services performed are achieved partly or wholly 
using existing intellectual property rights that do not accrue to the Contracting 
Authority, the Contractor grants the Contracting Authority a non-exclusive and 
irrevocable right of use for an indefinite period. In such an event, the Contractor 
guarantees that it is entitled to grant the aforesaid right of use. 
AVT18/BZ125884C 12  
24.4 In so far as a separate instrument needs to be executed for the assignment of 
the rights referred to in articles 24.1 and 24.2, the Contractor hereby irrevocably 
authorises the Contracting Authority to draft such an instrument and sign it on 
the Contractor’s behalf, without prejudice to the Contractor’s obligation to 
cooperate with the assignment of these rights as soon as the Contracting 
Authority requests it to do so, without attaching any conditions to its cooperation.  
 
24.5 If there is a difference of opinion between the Parties on the intellectual property 
rights referred to in articles 24.1 and 24.2, in relation to the results of the 
Services performed, it will be assumed, in the absence of proof to the contrary, 
that the rights accrue to the Contracting Authority. In all cases, the Contracting 
Authority may continue to use the results for the purposes specified in the 
Contract. 
 
24.6 The Contractor hereby renounces vis-à-vis the Contracting Authority any moral 
rights vested in it, i.e. the Contractor, as referred to in the Copyright Act, in so far 
as the relevant regulations allow it to do so. Acting both in its own capacity and 
on behalf of the Contractor’s Staff, and as authorised to this end, the Contractor 
renounces vis-à-vis the Contracting Authority any moral rights vested in these 
staff, in so far as the relevant regulations allow it to do so. 
 
24.7 The Contractor indemnifies the Contracting Authority against all claims brought 
by third parties in respect of any breach of their intellectual property rights, 
including equivalent claims relating to knowledge, unlawful competition and 
suchlike. The Contractor is obliged to take any action that may help to prevent 
stagnation and to limit the additional costs and/or damage incurred as a result of 
such breaches, and to do so at its own expense. 
 
24.8 Without prejudice to the above provisions, the Contracting Authority may, if a 
third party holds the Contractor liable for a breach of its intellectual property 
rights, cancel the Contract in writing, in full or in part, out of court, without 
prejudice to its other rights vis-à-vis the Contractor, such to include but not 
limited to any right to compensation. The Contracting Authority will not exercise 
its right to cancel the Contract until it has first consulted the Contractor.  
 
24.9 Intellectual property rights arising from the Services performed other than those 
referred to in articles 24.1 and 24.2 may never be exercised against the 
Contracting Authority, and the Contractor assigns to the Contracting Authority a 
non-exclusive and irrevocable right to use such rights, free of charge, for an 
indefinite period for the purposes of the Contract’s objectives.
 
 
Article 25 Assignment of rights and obligations under the Contract 
 
25.1 The Parties may not transfer their rights and obligations under the Contract to 
third parties without the consent of the other Party. The other Party will not 
withhold its consent without good reason. The Parties may attach conditions. 
 
25.2 Paragraph 1 does not apply to the establishment of limited rights, such as a 
right of pledge. 
 
AVT18/BZ125884C 13  
Article 26 Insurance 
 
26.1 The Contractor has taken out and will retain adequate and customary insurance 
cover in accordance with generally accepted standards in respect of the 
following risks: 
a. professional liability, i.e. the risks arising from Professional Errors; 
b. business liability, including liability for damage caused to persons or the 
Contracting Authority’s property; 
c. loss of or damage to business property (including as a result of fire or theft), 
including items of property owned by the Contracting Authority. 
 
26.2 At the Contracting Authority’s request, the Contractor will immediately present 
either the original or certified copies of the policies and proof of the payment of 
premium for the insurances referred to in paragraph 1 or a statement from the 
insurer to the effect that these policies exist and the premium has been paid. 
The insurance premiums owed by the Contractor are deemed to be included in 
the agreed prices and fees. 
 
Article 27 Employment conditions 
 
27.1 In performing the Services, the Contractor will comply with the applicable 
legislation on employment conditions and with the collective labour agreement 
applicable to it and its staff. 
 
27.2  The Contractor will record all agreements on employment conditions made for 
the purpose of the performance of the Contract in a clear and accessible 
manner. 
 
27.3 Upon request, the Contractor will immediately grant competent authorities 
access to these agreements on employment conditions and cooperate with any 
inspections, audits or salary validations. 
 
27.4 Upon request, the Contractor will immediately grant the Contracting Authority 
access to the agreements on employment conditions referred to in paragraph 2 
if the Contracting Authority considers this necessary to prevent or deal with a 
salary claim concerning work carried out for the purpose of the performance of 
the Contract. 
 
27.5 The Contractor will impose the obligations arising from the previous paragraphs 
in full on all parties with which it enters into contracts for the purpose of the 
performance of the Contract and will also stipulate that these parties impose 
these obligations in full on all parties with which they, in turn, enter into contracts 
for the purpose of the performance of the Contract. 
 
Article 28 Bribery and conflict of interests 
 
28.1 The Parties will not offer to each other or to third parties, or ask for, accept or 
obtain a promise of, from each other or third parties, whether for themselves or 
for any other party, any gift, reward, compensation or benefit of any form 
whatsoever if this could be construed as constituting an illicit practice. Such a 
AVT18/BZ125884C 14  
practice may constitute grounds for cancelling the Contract either in full or in 
part.  
 
28.2 Should it transpire that a member of the Contracting Authority’s Staff is also in 
the Contractor’s employment, regardless of whether or not such employment is 
paid, or was in the Contractor’s employment at the time when negotiations took 
place on the formation of the Contract, and that the Contracting Authority was 
not informed of this prior to the signing of the Contract, the Contracting Authority 
may cancel the Contract with immediate effect, without being required to give 
any notice of default or to pay any compensation. 
 
Article 29 Invalidity 
 
If one or more provisions of the Terms and Conditions or the Contract are found to be 
invalid or are nullified by a court of law, the remaining provisions will retain their legal 
force. The Parties will consult on the former provisions in order to make an alternative 
arrangement. The alternative arrangement must not undermine the purpose and the 
purport of the Terms and Conditions or the Contract. 
 
Article 30 Follow-up order 
 
The Contract does not entitle the Contractor to any follow-up orders. 
 
Article 31 Publicity 
 
The Contractor may not refer to the Contract either implicitly or explicitly in publications 
(including press releases) or advertisements and may use the Contracting Authority’s 
name as a reference only with the Contracting Authority’s consent. 
 
Article 32 Long-term provisions 
 
Provisions which by their nature are intended to persist after the Contract has been 
performed will remain in force after the expiry of the Contract. These obligations 
include in any event the provisions on guarantees (article 3), liability (article 21), 
intellectual property rights (article 24), confidentiality (article 13), and disputes and 
applicable law (article 33).
 
 
Article 33 Disputes and applicable law  
 
33.1 Any dispute between the Parties in relation to the Contract will be submitted only 
to the competent court in the district of The Hague, unless the Parties agree on 
an alternative means of settlement at the time a dispute arises. 
 
33.2 The Contract is governed by Dutch law.

=== Document: appendix 05 complaints procedure ===
Appendix 05 Complaints procedure 
 
 
Complaint 
A complaint is a written notification by an enterprise with an interest in the tender1 to the contracting authority, 
in which the entrepreneur specifies with reasons on what points he disagrees with the tender or any part of it. 
 
The complaint must at least contain:  
• The date. 
• The name and address of the entrepreneur. 
• The name of the tender. 
• The content of the complaint in which the complaint is clearly defined as such. 
• How the complaint could be resolved according to the entrepreneur. 
 
Not every question by an entrepreneur in a tendering procedure needs to lead to a complaint and not every 
complaint requires going through the entire complaints procedure. Questions and requests relating to 
clarification of aspects of the tendering procedure must be submitted in time by the entrepreneur to the 
contracting authority in accordance with the provisions in the tender document. This also applies to a request to 
make a non-essential change in the tender documents. Only if the entrepreneur continues to disagree with the 
response (in the summary of additional information and changes) of the contracting authority, or if a response 
is not forthcoming, may he lodge a complaint with the contracting authority. The entrepreneur may also lodge a 
complaint immediately.  
 
Complaints relate to aspects of the tender that come within the scope of the Tendering Act 2012. Complaints 
may not question the tendering policy of the contracting authority in general. 
 
Who is allowed to lodge a complaint? 
A complaint may be lodged by entrepreneurs with an interest in being awarded a specific tender. This includes: 
- interested entrepreneurs  
- (potential) tenderers and candidates 
- subcontractors2 of (potential) tenderers and candidates 
- industry associations and industry-related advice centres of entrepreneurs. 
 
Complaints may not be lodged anonymously. However, if it has any objections, an industry association may 
submit a complaint in its private capacity if this complaint relates to a specific tender which concerns one or 
more entrepreneurs in the industry. 
 
What is the final date for submitting a complaint? 
The entrepreneur is advised to lodge his complaint at the earliest possible opportunity. If the complaint is 
submitted too late, the contracting authority will not be able to resolve the complaint during the ongoing 
procedure. 
 
Submitting a complaint does not stop a tender procedure. The contracting authority may or may not decide to 
suspend the procedure. 
 
1 Tender also includes the offer procedure. 
2 Subcontractors may lodge a complaint in so far as the complaint does not concern the relationship between 
main contractor and subcontractor. 
 
Where should you submit your complaint?  
Complaints should be submitted in writing to: 
KlachtenmeldpuntAanbesteden@minez.nl 
 
The complaint will be dealt with by one or more persons who have not been involved with the tender to which 
the complaint relates. 
 
The complaints handling procedure 
a. After receiving the complaint in the manner described above, the complaints office immediately confirms it 
has received the complaint. 
b. The complaints office subsequently investigates if the complaint is legitimate, if necessary on the basis of 
information provided by the entrepreneur and the contracting authority. The complaints office starts this 
investigation as soon as possible, proceeds expeditiously, while taking account of the schedule of the 
tender procedure. 
c. If, after the complaint has been investigated by the complaints office, the contracting authority concludes 
that the complaint is (partially) legitimate and the contracting authority takes corrective and/or preventive 
measures, the contracting authority will inform the entrepreneur of this in writing as soon as possible. The 
other (potential) tenderers and candidates are also informed. Depending on the stage of the tender 
procedure, the contact person of the tender of the contracting authority may communicate the measures to 
the persons involved in the tender at the same time as the person who made the complaint is informed. 
This is to prevent giving undue preference to any of the parties.  
d. If, after the investigation, the contracting authority concludes that the complaint is not legitimate, it will 
reject the complaint giving its reasons for doing so and inform the entrepreneur. 
e. At the request of the entrepreneur or the contracting authority, the complaints office may propose, before 
the contracting authority makes a decision, to have the complaint submitted to the Committee of 
Tendering Experts (article 4.27 Aanbestedingswet (Public Procurement Act) 2012). 
f. When the contracting authority has informed the entrepreneur of the decision it has reached, or if the 
contracting authority fails to respond to the complaint within a reasonable term, the complainant may 
submit the complaint to the Committee of Tendering Experts.

=== Document: appendix 06 reference contracts ===
A nnex :    0 6   Reference  contracts   Project: Company: The contracting authority has set the following key competences that correspond to experience in essential aspects of the contract: 1. (fill in the core competences)   2. etc. For each key competenc e , present a reference that fulfils the requirements set out  in the tender document .  If more than one key competenc e  fulfilling the set requirements is reflected in a single reference, then you can use the same reference for those key competences. The contracting authority reserves the right to verify, if necessary, references for accuracy and completeness and to contact one or more references without intervention and/or permission from the tenderer. Key competenc e  (1, 2 or 3, or combination) Reference contract Commencement date of contract Contact referee Minimum requirements : The object of the reference contract must be comparable with the concerned key competenc e ; The reference contracts must be executed and/or completed during the past three years prior to the closing date for submitting the offer. If a not yet (fully) concluded contract is being used, then only the actually achieved results of the ongoing contract can be submitted and a forecast of the r esults will not suffice. The use of experience of one or more subcontractors in the references is only allowed if this subcontractor is / these subcontractors are engaged during the execution of this agreement and the tenderer can actually have the knowledge and experience of the relevant subcontractor(s) at his disposal and will actually use th ese  during the execution of the contract .