=== Document: nota van inlichtingen 2023-03-21-2 ===
Nota van inlichtingen A1.001.2023 Studies for the Expansion of the College of Medicine and 
Health Sciences, Rwanda
Pagina 1 van 5 Datum genereren nota van inlichtingen: 21-03-2023
Aanbesteding: A1.001.2023 Studies for the Expansion of the College of Medicine 
and Health Sciences, Rwanda
Aanbestedende Dienst: Invest International Public Programmes B.V.
Referentie: D2B21RW01
Toelichting:
Ref.nr. Onderwerp:
1 Tender Document
Vraag:
In line with article 2.71 of the Dutch Public Procurement Act 2012 for open 
tenders which states that, as quoted: “For open procedures, the time limit for 
submitting tenders shall be at least 45 days from the date of dispatch of the 
notice”, may we please request an extension to the bid submission deadline 
to allow for the statutory 45-day period?
Antwoord:
The time limit for submitting a proposal should be at least 40 days, when 
providing all documents electronically via a platform such as TenderNed. 
Invest has updated the time schedule, in the updated Tender document (par. 
3.4) and in TenderNed. The deadline for submitting a proposal has been 
adjusted to 11 April 2023.
Percelen: P  1 A1.001.2023 Studies for the Expansion of the 
College of Medicine and Health Sciences, Rwanda
Beantwoord op: 21-03-2023
Label: Proces
Ref.nr. Onderwerp:
2 Appendix 04: Terms of Reference
Vraag:
Appendix 04: Terms of Reference on Section 3.2.3.2: Environmental and 
Social Scoping Report including a Terms of Reference for the Focused 
Environmental and Social Assessment (the last bullet point) states that, as 
quoted: “The result of this phase is a scoping report and a Term of Reference 
for the ESIA.” According to the ToR, this deliverable is part of Phase II. 
From our previous experience, we understand that an ESIA ToR typically 
can only be developed when a project (or project option) is already defined. 
In this case, according to the ToR, the decision on the preferred project 
option will only be taken in the next phase (Phase III). Please kindly clarify 
on this.
Antwoord:
Nota van inlichtingen A1.001.2023 Studies for the Expansion of the College of Medicine and 
Health Sciences, Rwanda
Pagina 2 van 5 Datum genereren nota van inlichtingen: 21-03-2023
We understand your concern. However, we do believe that the selection of 
the options and scoping can be done in parallel. If this is not the case it can 
be discussed and if necessary moved up a phase.
Percelen: P  1 A1.001.2023 Studies for the Expansion of the 
College of Medicine and Health Sciences, Rwanda
Beantwoord op: 21-03-2023
Label: Inhoud
Ref.nr. Onderwerp:
4 Appendix 04: Terms of Reference
Vraag:
Appendix 04: Terms of Reference on Section 3.2.3.4: Market feasibility, its 
bullet point states, as quoted: “The consultant will list the inputs necessary 
for at least three proposed options and compare those to existing market 
conditions and they can determine the best option to be selected.” Kindly 
clarify and elaborate more on this sentence.
Antwoord:
The sentence was indeed not entirely clear. We would like for the consultant 
to work out 3 options, define the inputs for these 3 options, compare these 
options to similar projects and suggest the best solution going forward.
Percelen: P  1 A1.001.2023 Studies for the Expansion of the 
College of Medicine and Health Sciences, Rwanda
Beantwoord op: 21-03-2023
Label: Inhoud
Ref.nr. Onderwerp:
5 Appendix 04: Terms of Reference
Vraag:
Appendix 04: Terms of Reference on Section 3.2.3.7: Ranking states, as 
quoted below:
After the feasibility assessments, when the minimum of three project options 
are developed, propose a ranking of the different project options based on a 
number of objective key criteria (which are linked to the different feasibility 
domains); this can be performed as a Multi-criteria analysis (MCA). An 
MCA framework needs to be developed which contains clear instructions on 
how scoring is performed; the criteria and their respective weighting will be 
discussed and agreed upon with the Steering Committee or the Technical 
Committee (to be discussed during the inception phase 0). Afterwards, all 
project options should be scored independently. This will result in a ranking 
of the project options, for which a clear rationale is formulated (based on the 
Nota van inlichtingen A1.001.2023 Studies for the Expansion of the College of Medicine and 
Health Sciences, Rwanda
Pagina 3 van 5 Datum genereren nota van inlichtingen: 21-03-2023
key criteria scoring).
• Rank the project alternatives in terms of capital cost, recurrent cost 
implications, need for training and education, GOR policies, time plan, 
environmental and social impact, etc.
• Test for sensitivity against the developed scenarios.
• Propose and argue best available project alternative
We would like to receive clarification upon the below aspects regarding this 
section:
a. Regarding the development of the MCA, the statement states that “the 
criteria and their respective weighting will be discussed and agreed upon 
with the Steering Committee or the Technical Committee (to be discussed 
during the inception phase 0)”. Kindly clarify whether the statement inside 
the brackets means the MCA’s development will be started since the 
inception phase, or whether the Technical Committee’s formation is to be 
discussed during the inception phase (although we understand that the 
project management set up will include the TC), or whether the statement 
refers to other meanings.
b. Please elaborate more on the 2nd bullet point stating “test for sensitivity 
against the developed scenarios”. Does this mean testing the sensitivity of 
the MCA framework against multiple scenarios that can happen in the course 
of/impact each of the project alternatives, a pilot testing of the MCA 
framework, or does it refer to other meanings?
Antwoord:
In answer to question a: During the inception phase it will be decided who 
will make up the members of the SC and TC and which of these two 
commitees will be tasked with agreeing on the scoring. 
In response to question b: It is up to the consultant to develop the approach. 
The aforementioned options need to be weighed against each other.
Percelen: P  1 A1.001.2023 Studies for the Expansion of the 
College of Medicine and Health Sciences, Rwanda
Beantwoord op: 21-03-2023
Label: Inhoud
Ref.nr. Onderwerp:
6 Appendix 04: Terms of Reference
Vraag:
Appendix 04: Terms of Reference on Section 3.2.4.2: Functional plan and 
preliminary designs for infrastructure and equipment components, on the 3rd 
bullet points, states, as quoted: “Develop proposed simulation of the selected 
project.” We understand “simulation” here as 3D graphical simulation. 
Kindly confirm.
Antwoord:
Nota van inlichtingen A1.001.2023 Studies for the Expansion of the College of Medicine and 
Health Sciences, Rwanda
Pagina 4 van 5 Datum genereren nota van inlichtingen: 21-03-2023
A 3D graphical simulation is not necessary. During the implementation of 
the project, it can be discussed what kind of simulation the competent 
authority would prefer. 
Percelen: P  1 A1.001.2023 Studies for the Expansion of the 
College of Medicine and Health Sciences, Rwanda
Beantwoord op: 21-03-2023
Label: Inhoud
Ref.nr. Onderwerp:
7 Appendix 05: Program of requirements
Vraag:
Appendix 05: Program of requirement on Section 1.3: Requirements relating 
to the services required (point RS2) states, as quoted: “The Consultant 
allows for a maximum review time of 4 weeks for each draft and final 
deliverable, unless otherwise indicated, and include sufficient resources and 
time to adjust deliverables accordingly on basis of comments and 
observations.”
Please confirm whether this means a waiting time of max. 4 weeks each for 
the review of each draft deliverable before finalization AND also for the 
review of each final deliverable before moving to the next phase – which 
means up to max. 8 weeks review period in total per final deliverable.
Antwoord:
This is a maximum, of course we will aim to do this quicker. Some 
deliverables can be done in parallel, so we don't believe it will give 
unnecessary waiting time.
Percelen: P  1 A1.001.2023 Studies for the Expansion of the 
College of Medicine and Health Sciences, Rwanda
Beantwoord op: 21-03-2023
Label: Proces
Ref.nr. Onderwerp:
8 Appendix 05: Program of requirements
Vraag:
Appendix 05: Program of requirements Section 1.3: Requirements relating to 
the services required (point RS6) states, as quoted: “The (feedback) sessions 
that need to be organized with the Competent Authority (MOH) and the 
Project Steering Committee are included in the proposed coordination plan. 
These are necessary and instrumental to achieve per phase a final Go/No Go 
decision by Invest International Public Programmes B.V. If necessary, it is 
expected from the Contractor that additional (feedback) sessions will get 
Nota van inlichtingen A1.001.2023 Studies for the Expansion of the College of Medicine and 
Health Sciences, Rwanda
Pagina 5 van 5 Datum genereren nota van inlichtingen: 21-03-2023
organized without impact on the overall planning.”
However, Appendix 04: Terms of Reference only indicates two (2) Go/No 
Go moments - between Phase II and III, and between Phase III and IV – 
while the RS6 states per phase. Please clarify on this discrepancy on 
expected feedback session(s) and Go/No Go moment, especially regarding 
the moment between Phase I and II. Furthermore, please advise on the 
expected timeline/duration to reach each Go/No Go decision.
Antwoord:
There is only twice a formal approval at the two stages. For the Go/No Go 
the same time frame will be held as mentioned in the answer of question 7.
Percelen: P  1 A1.001.2023 Studies for the Expansion of the 
College of Medicine and Health Sciences, Rwanda
Beantwoord op: 21-03-2023
Label: Proces

=== Document: appendix 05 program of requirements ===
European Tender Procedure: Studies for the Expansion of the College of Medicine and Health Sciences, Rwanda 
 
 
 
PROGRAM OF REQUIREMENTS  
This chapter includes the requirements set by the Contracting Authority concerning the requested services and the prices 
and rates.  
 
By submitting a Tender, you unconditionally agree to the set of requirements  in the Tender documents and all its 
appendices. Failure to comply with one or more requirements will result in your Tender being disqualified from the 
assessment process and therefore excluded from the tendering process.   
 
By submitting a Proposal, you as Tenderer, explicitly consent to all requirements and conditions specified in this Tender 
document and declare that you will continue to comply with these throughout the entirety of the contract period. 
Furthermore, you confirm that you will comply with all of the specified prices and rates, including an y agreed indexation. 
Failure to comply with one or more requirements will result in your Tender being disqualified from the assessment process 
and therefore excluded from the tendering process. 
 
1.1 Requirements relating to the contractor and the study team (RCT) 
 
RCT1 The Contractor will work in collaboration with Rwandan firm(s) and/or Rwandan individual experts. 
RCT2 The study team must comprise a Team Leader (TL), a Deputy Team Leader and a mix of international and 
national experts that together cover the main topics and aspects according to the Terms of Referenc e 
(Appendix 4) and the requirements in this document. 
RCT3 The proposed TL is available to carry out the tasks and responsibilities assigned to him/her, except in cases of 
force majeure. 
RCT4 The Team leader shall be an international expert with a Master degree, having at least 10 years of experience 
in planning health infrastructure and health programs. The TL should have experience in carrying out feasibility 
studies for health and/or education infrastructure, including for international organization or development 
banks. He/she must have proven experience in project management, in sub-Saharan Africa or in a similar 
context. 
RCT5 Key experts (the profile sought of key experts, specified in Appendix 4 and the requirements in this document) 
must demonstrate their command and proficiency of spoken and written  English.  
RCT6 The study team consist at least of the following key experts and requirements: 
▪ Health professional education specialist: The health education specialist should be a health 
professional by training with at least 5 years of experience in health education and training quality  (at 
a University level). He/she must have a proven track record working with health profess ional training 
institutions, preferably in the East African region or in sub-Saharan Africa. 
▪ Bio-medical engineer: International expert with at least a university degree. He/she has at least 5 
years of experience in planning, costing, installing and mainta ining medical and non-medical 
equipment. A proven track record in projects in low- and middle-income countries, preferably in sub-
Saharan Africa. 
▪ Civil Engineer: The civil engineer should have at least a bachelor’s degree in civil engineering, and 
proven work experience in construction quality and cost controls on at least 2 projects.  
▪ Electrical Engineer: The electrical engineer should have at least a bachelor’s degree in electrical 
engineering, proven work experience with the construction industry on at le ast 2 projects. 
 
European Tender Procedure: Studies for the Expansion of the College of Medicine and Health Sciences, Rwanda 
 
 
 
 
1.2 Requirements relating to project coordination (RC) 
 
RC1 The Contractor is fully responsible for the structured execution of the D2B studies, ensuring the achievement of 
the specific objectives, tasks and deliverables per phase and will monitor the progress of each task, including 
the status of the deliverables and the level of use of project resources. The Contractor must inform the 
Competent Authority and the Contracting Authority timely with a complete, real and accurate report and in full 
on the progress throughout the D2B studies, in line with and congruent to the identified phases, tasks and 
deliverables.  
If deemed necessary and/or desirable by the Contractor this can be deviated from  if instrumental to the full 
execution of the assignment (see also RC2), but only after a request to do so has been timely submitted to the 
Contracting Authority for prior approval.  
RC2 The Contractor shall immediately inform the Competent Authority and the Contracting Authority if it expects a 
negative impact on the results of the assignment, for example because one or more tasks and/or deliverables 
cannot be carried out as planned and/or expected per phase, with due attention, with the expected accuracy, 
with the agreed methodology and/or expected outcome. 
RC3 The Contractor will proactively maintain relationships with other projects, initiatives, activities and stakeholders 
related to or with an effect on public health in the project area. Where appropriate, it will integrate relevant 
elements into the D2B studies. 
RC4 In order to achieve all DRIVE relevant requirements the Tenderer, for the purpose and throughout the 
execution of the assignment, needs to ensure that the DRIVE Policy Rules and Criteria 
https://wetten.overheid.nl/BWBR0046711/2022-05-28/0 are applied and adhered to whilst developing the  
project solution.  
 
1.3 Requirements relating to the services required 
 
RS1 Contractor commits to the contents of the Terms of Reference (Appendix 4) in executing the Assignment.  
 The Assignment consist of the following 19 deliverables, which are written out in the Terms of Reference, 
chapter 3 (Appendix 4): 
• D1: Inception Report 
▪ Mechanical Engineer: The mechanical engineer should have a degree with proven work experience 
particularly in plumbing, air, cooling, ventilation installations, working familiarity with the construction 
industry on at least 2 projects. 
▪ Environmental and Social Expert: The Environmental and Social Expert has at least 5 y ears of 
experience in managing and conducting environmental and social assessments according to 
international standards (including IFC Performance Standards) in public health care facilities.  At least 
one of the environmental and Social Expert (E&S) must be officially certified by the relevant Rwandan 
authorities. 
▪ Architect: The architect must be an international or national expert with a university degree in 
architecture. He/she should have experience in designing health education infrastructure on at least 2 
projects. 
▪ Economist/Financial Specialist: The financial Specialist must have a Master’s degree or equivalent with 
at least 5 years of experience with financial modelling (cashflow modelling). 
RCT7 If necessary for the execution of the assignment, additional expertise is recruited within the proposed budget. 
Each change in the team, including replacement of key and additional experts, is to be submitted to the 
Contracting Authority for prior approval. Key experts are replaced by individuals with at least the same 
knowledge and experience (quality). 
 
European Tender Procedure: Studies for the Expansion of the College of Medicine and Health Sciences, Rwanda 
 
 
 
• D2: Theory of Change 
• D3: Baseline Study 
• D4: Environmental and Social Screening report 
• D5: Final report on the proposed project alternatives summarizing their feasibility based on the 
executed studies, including a final ranking 
• D6: Environmental and Social Scoping Report including a Terms of Reference for the Focused 
Environmental and Social Assessment 
Go / No Go Decision 
• D7: Detailed project implementation plan 
• D8: Functional plan and preliminary designs for infrastructure and assets components  
• D9: Preliminary Human Resource Plan 
• D10: Financial viability appraisal and Economic appraisal (SCBA, including supporting spreadsheet 
models 
• D11: Preliminary BoQs for equipment, installations, and maintenance  
• D12: Focused Environmental and Social Assessment 
• D13: Environmental Social Management Plan (ESMP) 
• D14: Impact calculation of SDG 8 and SDG 13 
• D15: Procurement Plan 
Go / No Go Decision 
• D16: Procurement documents  
• D17: M&E Plan 
• D18: Intake Form DRIVE 
• D19: TOR Supervisor 
RS2 The Consultant allows for a maximum review time of 4 weeks for each draft and final deliverable, unless 
otherwise indicated, and include sufficient resources and time to adjust deliverables accordingly on basis of 
comments and observations. 
RS3 The language for execution of the contract is English. This includes all activities and submitted documentation, 
communication, interim and final reports, and other information thr oughout all phases of the assignment and 
necessary to achieve full execution of the contract.  
RS4 The reports and results used by the Contractor for the purpose of the (feedback) sessions with the Contracting 
Authority, Competent Authority and the Project Steering Committee should be sent at least two weeks before 
each session: 
• to the Competent Authority (University of Rwanda); 
• to the members of the Project Steering Committee; 
• to the Contracting Authority. 
• Comments provided to the Contractor before and during the session will be dealt with within two weeks 
from the date of the (feedback) session. 
RS5 In the event that reports and/or tasks and deliverables are not accepted, with good reason, by the Competent 
Authority (University of Rwanda), the Project Steering Committee and/or the Contracting Authority, the 
Contractor will make the necessary adaptations without impact on the overall planning.  
RS6 The (feedback) sessions that need to be organized with the Competent Authority (MOH) and the Projec t 
Steering Committee are included in the proposed coordination plan.  These are necessary and instrumental to 
achieve per phase a final Go/No Go decision by Invest International Public Programmes B.V.  If necessary, it is 
expected from the Contractor that additional (feedback) sessions will get organized without impact on the 
overall planning. 
 
European Tender Procedure: Studies for the Expansion of the College of Medicine and Health Sciences, Rwanda 
 
 
 
 
1.4 Requirements relating to security and safety (RSS) 
 
RSS1 The Contractor has procedures regarding internal safety management to ensure business continuity. E.g. for 
staff safety, pandemics, natural disaster, conflict and other risks. It will provide a description of its monitoring 
and crisis management system. 
RSS2 The Contractor has a contract for overall support, assistance and repatriation services for all its employees 
abroad. The Contractor will provide the supporting contracts and/or certificate(s).  
 
1.5 Requirements relating to prices/rates (RP) 
 
RP1 Discounts are not allowed or should be internalised in the final prices and rates.  
RP2 Prices/rates are all inclusive. This means that they include wage costs, overheads (such as business premises and 
wage costs of non-production workers), costs of support activities, costs of using equipment (such as computers) 
arising from the contract, the Contractors costs related to (feedback) sessions, profits, expense insurance, travel 
and accommodation costs, etc. 
RP3 The Contractor gives a fixed total price in his offer using Appendix 7. The total amount of the offer is final. 
Additional costs and/or costs under any name above the proposed price are not legally due by the Contracting 
Authority. 
 
1.6 Environmental requirements (RE) 
 
RE1 The Contractor commits to the contents of the ESIA requirements (Appendix 6) in executing the Assignment.  
RE2 The Contractor must have and provide proof of all environmental permits and certificates required to perform 
this contract. 
 
1.7 Invoicing requirements (RI) 
 
RI1 The disbursement schedule will be set during the contract phase with the winner of this Tender on the basis of 
the proposed schedule in the concept agreement.  
 
1.8 Tax-related requirements 
 
RT1 The Contractor indemnifies the Contracting Authority against any claims from the Dutch Tax and Customs 
Administration (Belastingdienst) or other tax authorities.   
RT2 The Contractor must quote the prices according to the following structure:  
• the amount excluding Dutch VAT and any VAT due outside the EU  
• the amount of Dutch VAT due (if applicable) and the amount of any VAT due outside the EU, and  
• the amount including Dutch VAT (if applicable) and any VAT due outside the EU.  
RT3 If the Contractor indicates that no VAT is applicable, then he agrees to provide documentary proof of the 
grounds for this to the Contracting Authority within 15 calendar days of the request to do so.  
RT4 The Contractor is liable for any extra costs for Dutch and/or foreign VAT due if he incorrectly charges no VAT or 
an incorrect amount of VAT to the Contracting Authority. If applicable, the Contractor is liable for accurate 
payment of VAT in the Netherlands and outside the EU, with the exception of the case stipulated in the following 
 
European Tender Procedure: Studies for the Expansion of the College of Medicine and Health Sciences, Rwanda 
 
 
 
sentence. If the Contracting Authority procures a service from a foreign business and Dutch tax law considers the 
work to have been performed in the Netherlands, then the Contracting Authority is liable for the payment of 
VAT to the Dutch Tax and Customs Administration for this/these service(s) perf ormed in the Netherlands.  
RT5 The Contractor guarantees that the amounts specified in the quotation are inclusive of all taxes and levies 
(including amounts considered equivalent to taxes or levies), regardless of their description and wherever in the 
world they may have been levied.  
RT6 The Contractor indemnifies the Contracting Authority against any claims from any tax authority for any taxes, 
levies or contributions considered equivalent to taxes or levies, originating from either the Netherlands or 
outside the Netherlands.  
RT7 Given the nature of this assignment, which includes development cooperation that exclusively benefits a 
developing country, a VAT rate of 0% applies to the amount specified on the quotation provided the Contractor 
is established in the Netherlands and his organisation is registered as an entrepreneur for VAT purposes. For 
extra certainty in this matter, the Contractor can request a declaration of exemption from VAT from the tax 
inspector. More information on this matter can be found within the decree issued by the Mi nistry of Finance on 
21 September 2015 (no. BLKB/2015/76M). If the Contractor submits a statement from the tax inspector within 
30 days of the award of the Contract that specifies that a different VAT rate applies, then the contract price will 
be increased to include the applicable VAT rate. The Contractor is liable for any costs (extra or otherwise) in the 
event that he incorrectly charges no VAT or an incorrect amount of VAT to the Contracting Authority.  
RT8 If the Contractor believes that his work is being taxed simultaneously (in part or in full) in both the Netherlands 
and a foreign country (outside the EU), then he agrees to provide evidence from the foreign tax authorities in 
question that prove VAT has been levied on one of the services/amounts substantiated by the Contractor in the 
quotation. The Contractor must provide this statement in English. If the statement from the foreign tax 
authorities is not in English, then he agrees to provide a sworn translation of this statement, the costs of which 
will be borne by the Contractor.

=== Document: appendix 06 esia requirements ===
European Tender Procedure: Studies for the Expansion of the College of Medicine and Health Sciences, Rwanda 
 
 
 
ESIA REQUIREMENTS 
The ESIA requirement based on the IFC Performance Standards (IFC PS) are included in this Annex. 
These are standard requirements to be used for the ESIA. The breadth, depth and type of analysis 
should be proportionate to the nature and scale of the proposed project’s potential impacts as 
identified during the course of the assessment process. Based on the results of Phase 3 the content 
of the ESIA will be defined in the Terms of Reference.  
 
Non-technical summary 
 
Description of the proposed project 
• Background and justification  
• Objective of the project  
• Detailed description of the proposed project, including its proposed location, construction 
technology, different project components, associated facilities, primary material to be used (in 
volume and type), employment, any offsite investments that may be required etc.  
• Clear definition of the project’s area of influence (direct, close, and wide if applicable) that is 
covered by the ESIA taking into consideration direct, indirect, cumulative impacts related to the 
(pre-)construction and operation phases. This includes off-site impacts including any project 
ancillary facilities and activities and in the supply chain. Includes a map showing the project site 
and the project's area of influence. 
 
ESIA Methodology 
• Description of used research methodologies 
• Description of risks and impacts assessment methodology 
• Expert team and description of roles in the assessment process 
 
Policy, legal, and institutional framework 
• Discusses the national policy, legal, and administrative framework within which the 
environmental and social assessment is carried out. This may include regulations governing 
environmental quality, health and safety, protection of sensitive areas, land use control at the 
national and local levels, land laws/regulations, laws on gender, child labour, ecological and 
socioeconomic issues, labour influx and conditions, consultation and stakeholder engagement. 
• Permits, licences or other approvals that may be required for the project 
• Describe the EIA process and requirements 
• Explains the requirements of the IFC PS and detail the most important gaps between local 
requirements and propose ways to overcome identified gaps.  
• Identifies relevant international agreements and guidelines to which the country is a party.  
 
Stakeholder consultations  
• As part of the assessment process, the consultant shall identify and consult relevant 
stakeholders. This shall be in proportion to the nature and scale of the proposed project’s 
potential impacts. The consultations of stakeholders is a continuous process that starts at the 
scoping stage and baseline situation stage until the public consultation when the draft ESIA 
report is concluded.  
• Identify and engage with local stakeholders (Community, Non-Governmental and Community 
Based Organisations, the local government). The consultant shall engage with a representative 
set of affected stakeholders, along gender, ethnic and/or religious lines, vulnerable groups. 
When communities are consulted, equal attention shall be paid to the views of women. The 
consultation process will be documented, signed off by the participants and shall have a 
minimum of 40% women. For cultural reasons, it may be necessary to set up focus groups with 
women only, when appropriate.  
• The notes of consultations should be included in the report together with a list of participants 
(including their relation to the project). Also, it should be clear in what way expectations and 
concerns have been integrated in the project. 
 
 
  European Tender Procedure: Studies for the Expansion of the College of Medicine and Health Sciences, Rwanda 
 
 
 
Gender-differentiated impacts should be assessed and the risks and impacts identification process 
should propose measures designed to ensure that one gender is not disadvantaged relative to the 
other in the context of the project. This may include providing opportunities to enhance full 
participation and influence in decision-making through separate mechanisms for consultation and 
grievances, and developing measures that allow both women and men equal access to benefits 
(such as land titles, compensation, and employment)  
 
Environmental and Social Baseline 
In order to predict potential impacts and provide a reference point against which any future changes 
associated with a project can be assessed, the consultant should describe the relevant physical, 
biological, and socioeconomic conditions of the identified project area (including any changes 
anticipated to occur in the foreseeable future). Identification of site-specific risks and impacts should 
be based on current and verifiable primary information. Reference to secondary information on the 
project’s area of influence is acceptable, but it may still be necessary to gather primary information 
from field surveys to establish baselines appropriate to the proposed project’s potential impacts and 
risks.  
 
It should be determined which of the following elements have to be collected:  
 
Physical environment: climate, soil, geology, water resources and quality, air quality, sound 
environment, infrastructures (power grid, water supply network, wastewater network, waste 
management, roads), natural environment. 
 
Human and socioeconomic environment: socio-cultural component (population and settlement, 
employment), economic activities, industry, health, solid and liquid waste collection and disposal 
practices, access to utilities, education institutions and levels. Where necessary and relevant the 
data collection should be gender aggregated.  
 
Land use and tenure: description of the current occupation, use and ownership of the land 
impacted by the project – specific attention should be given the presence of legacy issues.  
 
In the scoping phase it be made clear how data collection.  
 
and secondary information will be sufficient or whether site-specific and primary data needs to be 
collected.  
 
Alternative analysis  
The ESIA must describe, to the extent reasonably practicable, any prudent and feasible alternatives 
to the project. Systematically compare feasible alternatives to the proposed activities, site, 
technology, design and operation – including the "do nothing" situation – in terms of their main 
potential environmental and social impacts; the feasibility of mitigating these impacts; their 
suitability under local conditions; and their institutional, training and monitoring requirements.  
 
Impact Assessment 
Predicts and assesses impacts for the (pre-)construction and operation phases. Both direct and 
indirect positive and negative impacts in quantitative terms to the extent possible, including 
potential cumulative impacts. Impact assessment should be done based on the scope and depth 
described in the IFC PS and World Banks EHS Guidelines (general and industry specific). 
 
Specific attention should be given to impacts and risks related following elements:  
• Solid and liquid waste generation, collection and management (including ?? disposal of medical 
equipment (end-of-life)) 
• Temporary/permanent and physical/economic resettlement as defined by IFC PS 5  
• Emissions of air, noise and light (taking into consideration sensitive areas)  
• Occupational health and safety and labour and working conditions  
• Impacts and barriers to access to health care affecting in particular vulnerable groups  
• Impacts related to the upgrading electrical infrastructure 
 
  European Tender Procedure: Studies for the Expansion of the College of Medicine and Health Sciences, Rwanda 
 
 
 
• Community health and safety including influx of labour such as communicable diseases, sexual 
harassment, gender-based violence (GBV), violence against children (VAC), illicit behaviour and 
crime, etc. 
• Climate-related impacts associated with the project, including potential climate benefits and 
carbon footprints of the proposed project. 
• The primary supply chain for the construction (steel, blocks/bricks, sand, wood, gravel and 
aggregate etc.), presence of child labor or forced labor as well as high risk of significant safety 
issues related to supply chain workers.  
• Gender-differentiated impacts should be assessed and the risks and impacts identification 
process should propose measures designed to ensure that one gender is not disadvantaged 
relative to the other in the context of the project. This may include providing op portunities to 
enhance full participation and influence in decision-making through separate mechanisms for 
consultation and grievances, and developing measures that allow both women and men equal 
access to benefits (such as land titles, compensation, and employment).  
 
The description and quantification of the potential environmental and social impacts shall be based 
on scientific and objective methods. 
 
Mitigation Measures 
• Based on the findings, the consultant should identify mitigation measures to avoid, reduce or 
eliminate the negative effects of the project and increase the positive impacts.  
• Identifies any residual negative impacts that cannot be mitigated.  
• Explores opportunities for enhancement.  
• Identifies and estimates the extent and quality of available data, key data gaps, and 
uncertainties associated with predictions, and specifies topics that do not require further 
attention. 
 
Environmental and Social Management Plan and Monitoring Program (ESMMP)  
An ESMMP should be designed to control the impacts arising from the construction and operation 
phases. The ESMMP should consider generic and site-specific measures to address impacts on 
sensitive environmental receptors and will define the mitigation measures, roles and responsibilities 
for implementation, performance indicators, timeframes and cost estimates for implementation.  
 
Gender should be considered where relevant in plans and policies concerning amongst others job 
opportunities and enhancement (including local recruitment), training of staff, OH S and stakeholder 
and community engagement.   
 
The monitoring is critical for the successful implementation of the ESMMP and ensure that 
construction activities are in compliance with the requirements established for all levels and stages 
of the project implementation. It also helps identify how well mitigation measures are working. The 
monitoring program shall define environmental and social performance indicators as well as identify 
what information should be collected, how, where and how often. A detailed description of the 
project organisation should clearly define functions, roles and responsibilities of different actors 
involved in the implementation of the ESMMP. An assessment of the capacity and ability of different 
actors to implement the ESMMP should be provided as well as a plan to overcome any shortcomings.

=== Document: appendix 08 format summary cv's ===
Form at for  summary CV’s Tenderers are requested to submit summaries of the CVs of all key experts using this template.  For key experts, CVs are limited to  2  pages each. Instructions in  italics  may be deleted.    CURRICULUM VITAE (CV)  General information   Position title and no.  e.g.,  0 1, TEAM LEADER  Name  Insert full name  Country of Citizenship/Residence  Insert country of citizenship and residence  Education & training  List college/university or other specialized education, giving names of educational institutions, dates attended, degree(s)/diploma(s) obtained  Languages  List languages and level of proficiency (CEFR or similar)    Employment record relevant to the assignment  Starting with present position, list in reverse order. Please provide dates, name of employing organization, titles of positions held, types of activities performed and location of the assignment. Past employment that is not relevant to the assignment does not need to be included.   Period  Organization, title/position, country  Summary of activities performed relevant to the assignment  e.g., May 2005 - present  e.g., Ministry of …, advisor/consultant,  < Uganda > …  …  …      …      …      …    Adequacy for the assignment  Please list experiences that specifically demonstrate adequacy for the assignment. With reference to prior work/assignments, describe how these experiences meet the preferred profile and assessment aspects outlined per expert in section   < 7 >  of the  Terms of Reference ( ToR ) (Appendix  4 ) .  Experience  Brief name of project, assignment or activity, and role during that project  Description of how assessment aspects are met and value is added to the assignment   e.g.  < Strengthening the capacity  of 14 regional hospitals in Uganda > Role: Senior social specialist  …  …  …     …    …

=== Document: appendix 09 concept agreement ===
Concept Agreement  
 
between 
 
Invest International Public 
Programmes B.V. 
and 
<Name contractor> 
 
concerning 
Studies for the Expansion of the 
College of Medicine and Health 
Sciences, Rwanda 
 
 
Reference number: D2B21RW01
 
| Studies for the Expansion of the College of Medicine and Health Sciences, Rwanda - D2B21RW01 
 
2 
 
 
The undersigned: 
1. Invest International Public Programmes B.V., a private company with limited liability, incorporated under the laws of The 
Netherlands, with has its registered office in The Hague, The Netherlands and its offices at Bezuidenhoutseweg 12, 2594 
AV, The Hague, The Netherlands, registered with the DutchChamber of Commerce under registration number 83526617, 
duly legally represented in this matter by Mr. B. Younan, Regional Manager Asia and Latin America, hereinafter referred 
to as “Contracting Authority”; 
 
and 
 
1. <Name Contractor, located at <name of place>, with Chamber of Commerce number: <registration number> represented by 
Mr/Mrs <First name> <Surname>, <Function>, hereinafter referred to as “Contractor” 
 
collectively referred to as the Parties 
 
CONSIDERING THAT:  
 
1.  The Contracting Authority has a need for  Studies for the expansion of the College of Medicine and Health Sciences , 
Rwanda, hereinafter named as “Assignment”; 
2. For this Assignment the Contracting Authority has organized a European public tender process, published on the 27th of 
February 2023; 
3.   <...name of company...> has submitted a proposal on <...day/month/year...>; 
4.  <...name of company...> has made itself sufficiently aware of what the Contracting Authority wishes to achieve by means 
of the Agreement; 
5. The Contracting Authority has awarded the Agreement to the Contractor; 
 
DECLARE THAT THEY HAVE AGREED AS FOLLOWS: 
 
A number of terms in this Agreement are capitalized. These terms are defined in article 1 of the General Government Terms 
and Conditions for Public Service Contracts 2018 (ARVODI 2018).  
 
Article 1. Object of the Agreement 
 
1.1 The Contracting Authority grants Contractor the Assignment to perform Studies for the expansion of the College of 
Medicine and Health Sciences for the University of Rwanda in accordance with the Tender Documents published by the 
Contracting Authority on the TenderNed platform dated 27 February 2023 with reference A1.001.2023 (Appendix X) and 
the Proposal submitted by the Contractor dated <...date...> with reference <reference> (Appendix X). The Contractor 
hereby accepts this Assignment, to the extent that this Agreement does not deviate from this. 
 
1.2 To the extent that these documents contradict each other, the document referred to earlier shall prevail over the 
document referred to later: 
1. this Agreement; 
2. the verification report; 
3. Memorandum of Information dated <date>; 
4. Tender Guidelines with reference <number>, Appendices included; 
5. ARVODI 2018 
6. Proposal of the Contractor dated <date>, with reference <reference>. 
 
1.3 The results of the Assignment will be delivered in the form of or completed by the submission of a final report. The final 
report will in any case include a statement of the results achieved, the methods and techniques used, as well as the 
conclusions based thereon. The final report will be delivered in digital form.  
 
1.4 The final report is preceded by a draft report. The reports will be written in English. 
 
  
 
| Studies for the Expansion of the College of Medicine and Health Sciences, Rwanda - D2B21RW01 
 
3 
 
 
Article 2.  Conclusion, duration and termination of the Agreement 
 
2.1 The agreed Assignment shall be provided during the period from 1 June 2023 to 1 March 2024 with an option, 
exercisable unilaterally by Customer, to extend this Agreement under the same conditions 2 times by 6 months. 
 
2.2 The Contracting Authority shall notify Contractor in writing no later than two months prior to the expiration of the initial 
/ then  applicable term of the Agreement in wri ting if The Contracting Authority exercises the extension option. If the 
extension option is not exercised by the Contracting Authority, the Agreement will end by operation of law after the expiry 
of the period referred to in the first sentence of this article / applicable at that time.  
 
 
Article 3. Price and other financial provisions 
 
3.1 The Agreement states that the Contractor undertakes not to exceed the maximum total price referred to in the 
Agreement for the performance of the Assignment. 
 
3.2 The Contractor performs the Assignment specified in the Agreement for a fixed total price, as further detailed in the 
Price sheet (Appendix 7). The Contractor will not exceed this maximum total price.   
 
3.3 It is expressly agreed that if the Contractor does not charge VAT if some or all the Services are not exempt from VAT. The 
Contracting Authority will not be liable to pay the VAT in question.  
 
3.4 The price referred to in article 3.1 includes all taxes, levies or duties not specified herein, which are or will be levied in or 
outside the Netherlands, by a country or part of a country (which has the power to levy taxes independently). The price 
includes any transaction and/or currency and/or other charges payable by the C ontractor on account of exchange of 
charges incurred by the Contractor in other currencies to Euro or vice versa.  
 
3.5 The agreed rates are fixed and invariable for the duration of this Agreement, including extensions.  
 
3.6 Payment will be made once the Services performed have been received and accepted. The Contractor may invoice 
according to the milestones that have been achieved for Services that have been accepted by the Contracting Authority. 
Approval by the Contracting Authority shall be done within 14 calendar days after submission of the Contractor’s 
request. 
 
3.7 Disbursement Schedule: 
The Disbursement Schedule presented in this paragraph and in the table below, describes the disbursement for the 
Agreement under D2B project ‘Studies for the expansion of the College of Medicine and Health Sciences for the 
University of Rwanda’ with project number D2B21RW01, given the total D2B disbursement for this contract of EUR XXX 
(incl. VAT) upon full delivery on and compliance with all conditions precedent (CP’s) and subsequent conditions of the 
D2B Administrative Decision. 
 
The following payment schedule applies:   
• Advance Payment: not higher than 10% of the total value of phase 1, payable after Contract signing. 
• Interim Payments: a maximum 25% per phase, according to the approved Disbursement Schedul e, based on a 
proposition of the Contractor. 
• Final Payment: not lower than 15% of the total Contract value, payable after completion and acceptance of the full 
assignment by the Contracting Authority. The remainder will be paid after the results of the Services have been 
accepted.  
 
Payment nr. Disbursement CP (Condition Precedent) 
1 € XX,XXX.XX  
10% of total 
budget 
Advanced payment 
 
| Studies for the Expansion of the College of Medicine and Health Sciences, Rwanda - D2B21RW01 
 
4 
 
 
 € XX,XXX.XX  
 
Phase 0 -
Inception 
 
5% of total 
budget 
• CP1: Approved Inception report including confirmation of phases, 
tasks, deliverables, workplan and organisation of the Assignment. 
2 € XX,XXX.XX  
 
Phase I - 
Diagnostic and 
Baseline 
 
20% of total 
budget 
• CP1: Approved Theory of Change and draft M&E plan  
• CP2: Approved Baseline study  
• CP3: Approved Environmental and Social Screening Report  
3 € XX,XXX.XX  
 
Phase II - Pre-
Feasibility Study 
 
25% of total 
budget 
• CP1: Approved Final report on the proposed project alternatives 
summarizing their feasibility based on the executed studies, including a 
final ranking 
• CP2: Approved Environmental and Social Scoping Report including a 
Terms of Reference for the Focused Environmental and Social 
Assessment 
 
Go/No Go Decision 
4 € XX,XXX.XX  
 
Phase III - 
Detailed 
Feasibility Study 
 
20% of total 
budget 
• CP1: Approved Project implementation plan (Feasibility Study) 
• CP2: Approved Functional plan and preliminary designs for 
infrastructure and assets components 
• CP3: Approved Preliminary Human Resource Plan 
• CP4: Approved Financial viability assessment 
• CP5: Approved Environment and Social Impact Assessment 
• CP6: Approved Procurement Plan 
 
Go/No Go Decision 
5 € XX,XXX.XX  
 
Phase 4 - 
Procurement 
Package 
 
20% of total 
budget 
• CP1: Approved Draft Procurement documents (including ToR for 
Independent Supervisor) 
• CP2: Approved M&E Plan 
• CP3: Approved Intake Form for DRIVE 
Total € XX,XXX.XX  
 
100% of total 
budget 
  
3.8 Invoices are to be submitted to invoices@investinternational.nl . Only e-invoices (per mail in pdf) are processed and paid. 
  
 
 
| Studies for the Expansion of the College of Medicine and Health Sciences, Rwanda - D2B21RW01 
 
5 
 
 
3.9 The invoice shall contain at least the following information: 
a. The attached invoice is in PDF format; 
b. One invoice per PDF; 
c. Only one invoice will be attached to each email. 
d. Please state our company name Invest International Public Programmes B.V., cost centre 130.02 and address  
e. clearly on the invoice; 
f. State the VAT number NL862904602B01 and the KVK number 83526617;  
g. State your full bank details (IBAN, and for parties outside the Netherlands also BIC and Intermediary bank  
h. details); 
i. State your VAT number; 
j. State your Chamber of Commerce number; 
k. State the Invest International Contract number D2B21RW01; 
l. State the delivered service or deliverable, with the correct quantities and rates.  
 
An invoice that does not meet the above requirements will not be processed. If the Contractor has any questions or 
problems with the submission of the invoices, please refer to finance@investinternational.nl.   
 
3.10 The Contracting Authority shall pay an invoice that complies with the invoicing conditions as stated in article 3.9 of this  
Agreement within a period of 30 days from the invoice date to an account number specified by the Contractor. Invoices 
that do not meet the invoicing conditions will not be dealt with by The Contracting Authority . The Contractor will then 
receive the invoice in return with a request to correct the missing and/or incorrect data.  
 
 
Article 4. Contacts 
 
4.1 Contract Person for the Contracting Authority is <Mr. /Ms. First name Surname>. 
Contact Person for Contractor is < Mr./Ms. First Name Surname>. 
 
4.2 At least once per phase, consultation shall take place between the contact persons of the Parties regarding the execution 
of this Agreement (mid-term evaluation(s)). 
 
4.3 Contractor shall report on the progress of the Assignment to The Contracting Authority  as often and in the manner 
prescribed by the Agreement, or as deemed necessary by the Contracting Authority. The Contract or will in any case be 
obliged to provide the Contracting Authority's contact person / projectleader with a progress report on a quarterly basis, 
with due observance of the requirements laid down in Appendix 4 to this Agreement. In addition, the Contract or will 
provide reports specified by the Contracting Authority as often as the Contracting Authority so requests. 
 
4.4 Notwithstanding the provisions of article 10.2 of the ARVODI 2018, the contacts named above cannot make legally binding 
agreements on the Parties’ behalf. 
  
 
Article 5. Time and location  
 
5.1 The work relating to the Services specified in the Agreement will be carried out in at the place(s) stipulated in the 
Agreement. 
 
5.2 Each Party undertakes to give the other Party’s staff access to the place where the work relating to the Services specified 
in the Agreement must be performed and also to enable such staff to perform the work in working conditions that 
reflect that Party’s usual practice and in normal office hours. Each Party undertakes to instruct its staff to observe the 
rules applicable at the place where the work is to be carried out.  
 
 
 
 
| Studies for the Expansion of the College of Medicine and Health Sciences, Rwanda - D2B21RW01 
 
6 
 
 
Article  6. Other terms and conditions 
 
6.1 This Agreement, is exclusively governed by the "General Conditions of Government for the Provision of Orders for the 
Provision of Services 2018 (ARVODI -2018)" (Appendix 5), insofar as this Agreement does not deviate from them. The 
applicability of (any) general and special conditions of the Contractor is excluded. 
 
 
Article 7. Intellectual property rights 
 
7.1 The Contracting Authority will not use the research methods developed by the Contractor under the latter’s own 
management without the Contractor’s consent. 
 
7.2 The Contracting Authority may analyze or otherwise process the research information or complete the research or may 
have such analysis or processing carried out or have the research completed, but only if the information is analyzed or 
processed or the research is completed by researchers who endorse and comply with the ALLEA code of conduct.  
 
7.3 The Contractor will transfer to the Contracting Authority, and the Contracting Authority will accept from the Contractor, 
the title to all mate rials received, acquired and/or produced and processed for the purpose of the research, in so far as 
the Contractor has such material at its disposal and in so far as the material contains information relating to the research. 
Title will be transferred by the Parties hereby declaring that the Contractor will retain this material for the Contracting 
Authority. The material to which the title is to be transferred does not include material containing addresses used for the 
purpose of the research unless this material was obtained through or on the instructions of the Contracting Authority.  
 
 
Article 8.  Retention of research/evaluations material 
 
8.1 Unless agreed otherwise in writing, the Contractor will retain the research material referred to in article 7.3 of this 
Agreement for the Contracting Authority for four years free of charge, after the Services have been accepted.  
 
8.2 The Contractor will replace the above research/evaluations material free of charge for as long as it is in its possession, if  
all or part of the material, for whatever reason, becomes unusable, is destroyed, or is disposed of. This provision applies 
in so far as replacement is possible and desired by the Contracting Authority.  
 
8.3 Upon the expiry of the four-year period or such longer period as is agreed in the Agreement, the Contractor will make the 
research/evaluations material available to the Contracting Authority or destroy it free of charge at the latter’s request. If  
the Contractor fails to notify the Contracting Authority of the expiry of the four-year period, the retention of the material 
will be tacitly continued until one of the Parties gives written notice of its discontinuation.  
 
 
Article 9.  Publication 
 
9.1 In connection with the provisions of section 15b of the Copyright Act 1912 and section 8, subsection 2 of the Databases 
(Legal Protection) Act, the Contractor will make a reservation in respect of the evaluation reports or the database under 
copyright or database law respectively. 
 
9.2 The Contractor grants the Contracting Autho rity a non -exclusive, irrevocable right for an indefinite period to publish or 
reproduce the results of the Services, or have them published or reproduced, which right the Contracting Authority 
accepts, such in the widest possible sense, regardless of the method of use or reproduction and regardless of whether 
such use or method of reproduction is known when this Contract is signed.  
 
9.3 In accordance with article 24 of the ARVODI 2018, the following applies to publication. Only the Contracting Authority is 
entitled to publish the reports. The Contracting Authority will cite the Contractor as the implementing organization. If the 
Contracting Authority wishes to publish explanatory notes or a commentary to coincide with the publication of the final 
 
| Studies for the Expansion of the College of Medicine and Health Sciences, Rwanda - D2B21RW01 
 
7 
 
 
report, it wil l consult the Contractor before doing so. The Contracting Authority cannot stop publication because the 
research findings are not to its liking. 
 
9.4 In addition to article 24 of the ARVODI 2018, the following applies. The Contractor is permitted to use the re sults of the 
Services, except for privacy -sensitive information. In doing so, the Contractor must not act contrary to the Contracting 
Authority’s interests. In case of doubt, the Contractor will consult with the Contracting Authority in advance.  
 
 
Article 10. Declaration of integrity 
 
10.1 The Contractor hereby declares that it has not offered or given members of the Contracting Authority’s Staff any benefit  
in order to obtain this Agreement or in order to obtain an Agreement for the performance of Services, nor arranged for 
them to be offered or given any such benefit. It undertakes not to do so in the future with a view to inducing members of 
the Contracting Authority’s Staff to perform or refrain from performing any act.  
 
10.2 The Contracting Authority hereby affirms that, during the performance of the Contract, it will in no way undermine the 
Contractor’s independence or act in a manner that undermines the reliability of the research information.  
 
 
Article 11.  Final provisions 
 
11.1 In addition to article 22 of the ARVODI 2018, in the event of early termination of this Agreement, the Contracting Authority 
may demand that the Contractor conclude the Services and transfer the results to the Contracting Authority or to a third 
Party designated by it in such a way that the research can continue unhindered.  
 
11.2 Any derogations from this Agreement are binding only if they have been expressly agreed by the Parties in writing.  
 
11.3 Any written or oral agreements previously made by the Parties about the award of contracts for the performance of 
Services are nullified once this Agreement has been signed. 
 
11.4 The Agreement is exclusively governed by Dutch law.  
 
11.5 All disputes arising from the Agreement will only be submitted to the competent court in The Hague, on the understanding 
that Invest International has the right to submit claims against the Contractor to other courts that are competent under 
national or international law and treaties. 
 
 
Thus agreed and signed in duplicate, 
 
 
The Contracting Authority    Contractor 
Invest International Public Programmes  <Name Contractor>    
 
On behalf of this, 
 
 
Mr. B. Schilperoort    <Name and Surname subscriber> 
Manager Team East & Southern Africa  <Function subscriber>    
The Hague, <date>      <Place>, <date> 
  
 
 
 
 
| Studies for the Expansion of the College of Medicine and Health Sciences, Rwanda - D2B21RW01 
 
8 
 
 
Appendices:  
Appendix 1 the verification report; 
Appendix 2 Memorandum of Information, dated <date> 
Appendix 3 Tender Document, Appendices included, dated <date> 
Appendix 4 ARVODI 2018 
Appendix 5 Proposal Contractor, included Price sheet dated <date> 
 
 
 
Disclaimer text 
Let’s get in touch. Together we build the 
sustainable markets of tomorrow. 
Invest International 
Malietoren | Bezuidenhoutseweg 12 
2594 AV The Hague 
The Netherlands 
procurement@investinternational.nl 
 
 
investinternational.nl