=== Document: 202301043 annex 3 - statement of approval (v1.1) ===
Annex  3   –   Statement of Approval By filling in and signing this  Statement , the  Tenderer  agrees to: all requirements set out in Chapter  3 of the T ender Document  and the Tenderer declares that it will fulfil these requirements during the term of the agreement . the prices and rates as filled in by the tenderer on the price s /rate s  sheet ( Annex  4 ).   Company : Name of signatory: Signature: Date:

=== Document: 202301043 annex 6 - draft contract (v1.1) ===
1 
Public service contract (ARVODI 2018)  
Contract number: 202301043 / WOZ2230075  
 
The undersigned:  
 
1. The State of the Netherlands, which has its seat in The Hague,  
represented by the Minister  of Economic Affairs and Climate Policy, 
legally represented in this matter by  Barto Piersma, Director of National Programmes of the 
Netherlands Enterprise Agency,   
hereinafter referred to as the Contracting Authority, 
 
and 
 
2. [Contractor’s full name and legal form],  
which has its registered office in …, 
legally represented in this matter by  
............... [and ...] [signatory’s name], 
hereinafter referred to as the Contractor, 
 
WHEREAS: 
 
– The Contracting Authority wishes, in relation to the performance of Services of Certification 
of site characterization studies for Wind Farm Zones Nederwiek and Doordewind, to 
contract a service provider;  
– The Contracting Authority  has conducted an EU tende r procedure for the selection of a 
party to this Agreement  on the basis of the Tender Document and subject to the Public 
Procurement Act 2012;  
– [Name of company] issued a Tender  on […] September 2023 ; 
– The Contracting Authority has accepted this Tender; 
– [Name of company ] has sufficiently familiarised itself with what the Contracting Authority 
wishes to achieve ; 
– The Parties wish to lay down the ensuing legal relationship in a written Contract; 
 
AGREE AS FOLLOWS:  
 
A number of terms in this Contract are written with initial capitals. The meanings of these terms 
are defined in article 1 of the General Government Terms and Conditions for Public Service 
Contracts 2018 (ARVODI 2018). 
 
Client: the Netherlands Enterprise Agency. 
 
Tender: the offer dated  [day month year] with reference [reference] , submitted by the Contractor 
on the basis of the Tender Document in the context of the EU tender procedure dated  26th June 
2023, with reference 202301043.  
 
Tender Document:  the document dated 26th June 2023, with reference 202301043, which 
describes and explains participation to the Contract for the execution of the Work during a certain 
period, the tender procedure to be followed and the selection and award criteria. 
 
Work: the work that the Contractor  is to execute for the Client under the terms of this Contract. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 
1. Object of the Contract  
 
1.1 The Contracting Authority hereby commissions the Contractor to perform Services of 
Certification of site characteri zation studies for the Nederwiek and Doordewind Wind Farm 
Zones , as described in the Offer submitted by the Contractor on [day month year] 
(reference [reference] ), see Tender document paragraph 1.3 - Time Schedule , based on 
the Tender Document  issued by the Contracting Authority on 26th June 2023 with reference 
number 202301043 , see Tender document paragraph 1.3 - Time Schedule , in so far as this 
Contract does not contain any provisions to the contrary.  The Contractor hereby agrees to 
perform these Services. 
 
1.2 The following documents are an integral part of this Contract. In the event of 
inconsistencies , a higher ranked document takes precedence over a lower ranked 
document:  
1.  this document ; 
2.  the Memorandum of Information published on  [day month year] 
 3.  the ARVODI 2018;  
 4.  The following sections of Annex  5 
  (I) Scope of Work 
  (II) QHSE Requirements  
 5.  the Tender Document issued on  26th June 2023 with reference number 202301043; 
6.  the Offer issued  in Annex 4 by the Contractor to the Contracting Authority on  
    [day month year] with reference [reference].  
 
2. Formation and duration of the Contract 
 
2.1 This Contract is formed once it has been signed by both Parties.  
 
2.2 The agreed Services will be performed in the period from 8th November 2023  up until and 
including 31 st December 2026 . If, due to unforeseen circumstances, the work is not 
finished by this last date, the Contract can be extended until all Services are compl eted, 
but ultimately up until and including 31 st December 2027.  
 
3. Price and other financial provisions 
 
3.1 The Contractor will invoice retrospectively, based on the Contract Price as specified in 
Annex 4 - Prices rates. 
 
3.2 It is expressly agreed that if the Contractor does not charge VAT, but some or all of the 
Services are not exempt from VAT, the Contracting Authority will not be liable to pay the 
VAT in question.  
 
3.3 The fee covers all the Work to be performed by the Contractor under this Cont ract, plus 
any materials needed for this purpose.   
 
3.4 The agreed rates are fixed and invariable from 8th November 2023 up until and including 
31st December 2026 . 
 
3.5 The agreed Contract Price will not be subject to indexation , except for the case the 
Contract period is extended . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
3.6 Indexation of the unpaid Payment Milestones is agreed in case the Contract period is 
extended. In case the option to extend the Contract is invoked, the prices and rates can be 
adjusted once, at least 3 months before the end of the Contract. Requests for indexation 
can be addressed to contractmanagement@RVO.nl.  The prices and rates can be adjusted 
in line with the index figure set by Statistics Netherlands (CBS Statline) applicable to 
collectively negotiated hourly wages (including special bonuses) in the corporate -services 
category (M Specialistische zakelijke diensten (specialised commercial services). For this 
purpose, the monthly figure for the most recently published month is used and the index 
for the starting mo nth of the Contract is set as 100%. The request for indexation submitted 
by the Contractor must be itemised, accompanied by a printout from CBS Statline, and 
contain a reference to the Contract in question with the Contracting Authority. The proposal 
must contain a summary of both the current prices and rates and the new prices and rates. 
The Contracting Authority will inform the Contractor in writing of the decision regarding 
whether or not to accept the new prices and/or rates. The Tenderer will not submi t any 
zero or negative prices/rates.  
 
3.7  Notwithstanding the provisions of article 17.1 of the ARVODI 2018 on electronic invoicing,  
           the Contractor will send the invoice(s) to the Contracting Authority in pdf. The Contractor  
           will send the invoice(s), quoting the above -mentioned contract number and purchase order 
           number  WOZ2230075 to: Energie.roermond.facturen@rvo.nl  
 
4  Penalties 
 
4.1 If the Services have not been performed in full in accordance with the Contract on the 
agreed Key Dates (Table 3 of Annex 5-I, Scope of Work), the Contractor will immediately 
pay a penalty of 0.1% of the Contract  Price, as adjusted for approved Variation Orders,  for 
each day that it fails to perform the Services as agreed, up to a maximum of 10% thereof. 
If, other than through force majeure, the Contractor is permanently unable to perform the 
Services as agreed, the penalty will be immediately payable in full.  
The penalty will be payable to the Contracting Authority, without prejudice to all other 
rights and claims, including:  
a. the right to demand that the Services be performed as agreed;  
b. the right to damages.  
 
The penalty will be set off against amounts payable by the Contracting Authority regardless 
of whether the claim for payment of such amounts has been transferred to a third party. 
 
The penalties apply to all activities as mentioned is Annex 4 Prices/rates. 
 
5. Contacts / project managers 
 
5.1 The Contracting Authority’s contact is  
Name   [name] 
Position [positition ] 
E-mail adress  [e-mail address]  
   
The Contractor’s contact is 
Name   [name] 
Position [positition] 
E-mail adress  [e-mail address]  
 
5.2 At least two times per year, the contacts of the two Parties will hold consultations on the  
way in which this Contract is being implemented (interim evaluation(s)).  
 
5.3 Notwithstanding the provisions o f article 10.2 of the ARVODI 2018, the contacts named 
above cannot make legally binding agreements on the Parties’ behalf. 
 
 
 
 
 
4 
6. Time and place 
 
6.1       In principle, the Services will be performed at the Contractor’s offices. 
 
 
7. Other Terms and Conditions 
 
7.1 This Contract is governed exclusively by the General Government Terms and Conditions for 
Public Service Contracts 2018 (ARVODI 2018), Annex 8 of which the Parties have already 
received a copy , in so far as this Contract does not contain any provisions to the contrary. 
Any general and special terms and conditions drawn up by the Contractor do not apply to 
this Contract. 
 
 
8. Declaration of integrity 
 
8.1 The Contractor hereby declares that it has not offered or given members of the Contracting 
Authority’s Staff any benefit in order to obtain the contract nor arranged for them to be 
offered or given any such benefit. It undertakes not to do so in the future with a view to 
inducing any members of the Contracting Authority’s Staff to perform or refrain from 
performing any act. 
 
9. Final provisions 
 
9.1 Any derogations from th is Contract are binding only if they have been expressly agreed by 
the Parties in writing. 
 
9.2 Any written or oral agreements previously made by the Parties about the Services that are 
the object of this Contract are nullified by the signature of this Contract. 
 
 
Done on the later of the two dates stated below  and signed in duplicate. 
 
The Hague, [date] … .........   [place, date] …….. .........  
 
For the Minister of Economic Affairs   For [Contractor’s name] 
and Climate Policy, and commissioned by  
Barto Piersma, Director of National  
Programmes of the Netherlands Enterprise  
Agency: 
 
 
 
 
 
[signatory’s name]                                 [signatory’s name] 
[signatory’s position]                              [signatory’s position] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Schedule (s):  
Annex……………………  
Annex………………..

=== Document: 202301043 memorandum of information ===
Memorandum of Information European tender 'Certification of site characterization studies for Wind Farm Zones Nederwiek and 
Doordewind’, with reference 202301043 / WOZ2230075 . 
 
Date: 18 July 2023 
 
In this memorandum of  information, the contracting authority provides answers to the questions asked and remarks posted in the context of the 
above-mentioned Europe an tender. This memorandum of  information forms a n integral part of the tender document ( with reference  202301043 
/ WOZ2230075).  
 
Together with this Memorandum of Information corrected versions of Annexes 3 and 6 will be published. When submitting a tender please use 
the following updated versions of the Annexes. The previous versions have become defunct (“vervallen” in Dutch).  
- 202301043 Annex 3 - Statement of approval (V1.1)  
- 202301043 Annex 6 - Draft Contract (V1.1)  
 
 
Question Chapter/ 
Paragraph/ Article 
from tender 
documents 
Question Answer 
1.  Article 21  
Annex 8 – ARVODI  
Can you add to article 21 the following passage: 
The Supplier is never liable for any consequential 
damage, disadvantage or any immaterial damage 
(such as loss of produ ction, income or loss of 
profit, the increase of general costs, goodwill, 
disruption of the planning) on the part of the 
Client or third parties deployed by the Client, 
both contractually and contractually. If you do 
not agree with this passage, can you st ate why 
you wish to submit this risk to the Supplier? A 
reference as we have seen in the  past from 
contracting authorities 'it is allowed on the basis 
In principle, liability is  unlimited regarding the damages 
caused by a party. The law does not make any distinction 
between direct and indirect damages. Therefore, the 
Contracting Authority also does not make this distinction. 
Furthermore, the liability is already limited in art. 2 1.3 
ARVODI. The Contracting Authority does not consider it to 
be reasonable to further limi t liability. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 18-7-2023 
Question Chapter/ 
Paragraph/ Article 
from tender 
documents 
Question Answer 
of the law' does not help us to understand the 
calculation of risks correctly.  
  
2.  Article 4.1 
Annex 6 – Draft 
Contract 
Please remove the penalty clause. As a TIC 
company we depend on the accurate and timely 
information of our  clients (in this case perhaps 
even on third parties which are hired by the 
Authorities). Therefore, such clause are not part 
of the industry standards. Could you please 
remove this clause? 
It is our intention to have frequent meetings and other 
communication with the certification provider, to limit the 
capacity planning risk. However, we will not remove the 
penalties clause due to the interdependencies between the 
certification process and the overall planning of the 
Nederwiek and Doordewind Wind Farm Zon e development. 
Timings as presented in Table 3 of the Scope of Work are 
durations and not actual dates. This means the timing of 
delivering the to be certified products might ch ange due to 
circumstances with a third party, but durations of reviewing 
will remain the same. 
3.  Article 3.4 
Annex 6 – Draft 
contract 
Please modify this one as indexation (inflation 
correction) is part of the r egular industry 
standards. Hence, could you please add an CBI 
CPS index clause per annum.  
Article 3.6 of the Annex 6 - Draft contract is adjusted as 
follows:  
Indexation of the unpaid Payment Mi lestones is agreed in 
case the Contract period is extended. In case the option to 
extend the Contract is invoked, the prices a nd rates can be 
adjusted once, at least 3 months before the end of the 
Contract. Requests for indexation can be addressed to 
contractmanagement@RVO.nl. The prices and rates can be 
adjusted in line with the index figure set by Statistics 
Netherlands (CBS S tatline) applicable to collectively 
negotiated hourly wages (including special bonuses) in the 
corporate-services category (M Speci alistische zakelijke 
diensten (specialised commercial services). For this 
purpose, the monthly figure for the most recently 
published month is used and the index for the starting 
month of the Contract is set as 100%. The request for 
indexation submitted by  the Contractor must be itemised, 
accompanied by a printout from CBS Statline, and contain 
a reference to the Contract in que stion with the Contracting 
Authority. The proposal must contain a summary of both 
 
 
 
3 18-7-2023 
Question Chapter/ 
Paragraph/ Article 
from tender 
documents 
Question Answer 
the current prices and  
rates and the new prices and rates. The Contracting 
Authority will inform the Contractor in writing of the 
decision regarding whether or not to accept  the new prices 
and/or rates. The Tenderer will not submit any zero or 
negative prices/rates.  
 
This change also applies to section 3.4.4. of the Tender 
Document. 
4.  Annex 3 Annex 3 cannot be opened. It seems to be 
protected. Can you provide it in another format 
that can be opened?  
We enclosed a new  document (V1.1) to the Tender 
Document. 
5.  General When reading the documentation we are 
wondering if there is  required the data cleaning 
work (making reports out of the raw site data) as 
well as the certification itself.  
 
Furthermore we are wondering regarding the 
work of the project execution plan, which seems 
to be handed in already in pro posal. The 
requirements regarding the content of the project 
execution plan look to us, as they are a kind of 
study work, where some budget might be 
necessary. 
No. Acquisition, processing and reporting on t he data is the 
Scope of Work for the (third party)  Contractors hired by 
the Contracting Authority. The responsibility of the 
Certification Contractor is to review, certify and provide a 
Statement of Compliance for the deliverables according to 
the industry standards.  
 
The Project Execution Plan (PEP) is your plan of work, 
which describes your proposal and how you will handle the 
work of certification. It is certainly not a kind of study 
work. Your PEP will be evaluated and will be part of the 
Contract, when si gned. For the completeness of the 
proposal a P EP (and a Project Quality Plan (PQP)) is 
required. So no budget is needed for the PEP (and PQP) as 
it will be part of your proposal and no remuneration 
applies. Annex 5 -I - Scope of Work, section 2.2 details th e 
provisions of this PEP and states that this plan is a clear 
starting basis for the remainder of this project and will 
serve as a basis for the project execution.

=== Document: tn413908 - sf02 aankondiging van een opdracht 20230627142114 ===
27/06/2023
I. II. III. IV. VI.
- 1 -
CONTRACT NOTICE
Services
Directive 2014/24/EU
SECTION I: CONTRACTING AUTHORITY
I.1) NAME AND ADDRESSES
Official name:
Ministerie van Economische Zaken en Klimaat, Rijksdienst voor Ondernemend
Nederland (RVO)
National ID:
12024663
Postal address:
Prinses Beatrixlaan 2
Town:
Den Haag
NUTS code:
NL
Postal code:
2595 AL
Country:
NL
Contact person:
Mirjam den Hartog
Telephone:
+31 630222131
E-mail:
iucezteam1@rvo.nl
Fax:
-
Internet address(es)
Main address:
http://www.rvo.nl
Address of the buyer profile:
-
I.2) JOINT PROCUREMENT
-
27/06/2023
I. II. III. IV. VI.
- 2 -
I.3) COMMUNICATION
The procurement documents are available for unrestricted and full direct access, free of
charge, at:
https://www.tenderned.nl/aankondigingen/overzicht/302096/details
Additional information can be obtained from
the abovementioned address
Tenders or requests to participate must be submitted
electronically via:
https://www.tenderned.nl/aankondigingen/overzicht/302096/details
to the abovementioned address
I.4) TYPE OF THE CONTRACTING AUTHORITY
National or federal agency/office
I.5) MAIN ACTIVITY
• Economic and financial affairs
27/06/2023
I. II. III. IV. VI.
- 3 -
SECTION II: OBJECT
II.1) SCOPE OF THE PROCUREMENT
II.1.1) Title
Certification of site characterisation studies for the Wind Farm Zones Nederwiek and
Doordewind
Reference number: 202301043
II.1.2) CPV code(s)
Main code:
71000000 - Dienstverlening op het gebied van architectuur, bouwkunde, civiele techniek
en inspectie
Supplementary code:
-
II.1.3) Type of contract
Services
II.1.4) Short description
RVO has been assigned to prepare and collect all site characterisation data required
for commercial developers to prepare a competitive bid for acquiring a permit for the
development of wind farms within the Nederwiek Wind Farm Zone and Doordewind Wind
Farm Zone.
As part of the future permit tenders the developers will receive information packages in
which detailed data and information about the offshore sites is included. Detailed information
on the soil and wind&water conditions at the sites will be part of this information package.
The objective of this tender is to contract a tenderer to carry out the certification of the
various site characterization studies on soil and wind&water conditions that will be
performed for the Nederwiek Wind Farm Zone and Doordewind Wind Farm Zone.
The expected start of the contract will be in November 2023.
II.1.5) Estimated total value
Value excluding VAT: - Currency: -
II.1.6) Information about lots
This contract is divided into lots: yes
Tenders may be submitted for: one lot only
27/06/2023
I. II. III. IV. VI.
- 4 -
II.2) DESCRIPTION
II.2.1) Title
Certification of site characterisation studies for the Wind Farm Zones Nederwiek and
Doordewind
Lot No: 1
II.2.2) Additional CPV code(s)
Main code:
71000000 - Dienstverlening op het gebied van architectuur, bouwkunde, civiele techniek
en inspectie
Supplementary code:
-
II.2.3) Place of performance
NUTS code:
NL NEDERLAND
Main site or place of performance:
-
II.2.4) Description of the procurement:
(nature and quantity of works, supplies or services or indication of needs and requirements)
n.v.t.
II.2.5) Award criteria
Criteria below
Quality criterion
Name: Project Execution Plan
Weighting: 20
Quality criterion
Name: Project Quality Plan
Weighting: 20
Quality criterion
Name: Track record and experience of the project team
Weighting: 35
27/06/2023
I. II. III. IV. VI.
- 5 -
Price
Weighting: 25
II.2.6) Estimated value
Value excluding VAT: - Currency: -
II.2.7) Duration of the contract, framework agreement or dynamic purchasing
system
Start: 08/11/2023
End: 31/12/2026
This contract is subject to renewal: yes
Description of renewals:
1 x 1 year extension
II.2.10) Information about variants
Variants will be accepted: no
II.2.11) Information about options
Options: yes
Description of options:
Option to extend
II.2.12) Information about electronic catalogues
-
II.2.13) Information about European Union funds
The procurement is related to a project and/or programme financed by European Union
funds: no
II.2.14) Additional information:
Option to extend the contract with 1 x 1 year
27/06/2023
I. II. III. IV. VI.
- 6 -
SECTION III: LEGAL, ECONOMIC, FINANCIAL AND TECHNICAL
INFORMATION
III.1) CONDITIONS FOR PARTICIPATION
III.1.1) Suitability to pursue the professional activity, including requirements
relating to enrolment on professional or trade registers
List and brief description of conditions:
- Exclusion Grounds
III.1.2) Economic and financial standing
List and brief description of selection criteria:
-
Minimum level(s) of standards possibly required:
-
III.1.3) Technical and professional ability
List and brief description of selection criteria:
- Suitability requirements
Minimum level(s) of standards possibly required:
-
III.1.5) Information about reserved contracts
-
III.2) CONDITIONS RELATED TO THE CONTRACT
III.2.1) Information about a particular profession
-
III.2.2) Contract performance conditions:
-
III.2.3) Information about staff responsible for the performance of the contract
-
27/06/2023
I. II. III. IV. VI.
- 7 -
SECTION IV: PROCEDURE
IV.1) DESCRIPTION
IV.1.1) Type of procedure
Open procedure
IV.1.3) Information about a framework agreement or a dynamic purchasing system
-
IV.1.4) Information about reduction of the number of solutions or tenders during
negotiation or dialogue
-
IV.1.6) Information about electronic auction
-
IV.1.8) Information about the Government Procurement Agreement (GPA)
The procurement is covered by the Government Procurement Agreement: yes
IV.2) ADMINISTRATIVE INFORMATION
IV.2.1) Previous publication concerning this procedure
Notice number in the OJ S: -
IV.2.2) Time limit for receipt of tenders or requests to participate
Date: 18/09/2023 Local time: 13:00
IV.2.3) Estimated date of dispatch of invitations to tender or to participate to
selected candidates:
Date: -
IV.2.4) Languages in which tenders or requests to participate may be submitted:
• EN
27/06/2023
I. II. III. IV. VI.
- 8 -
IV.2.6) Minimum time frame during which the tenderer must maintain the tender
Duration in months: 4 (from the date stated for receipt of tender)
IV.2.7) Conditions for opening of tenders
Date: 18/09/2023 Local time: 13:01
Place:
-
Information about authorised persons and opening procedure:
-
27/06/2023
I. II. III. IV. VI.
- 9 -
SECTION VI: COMPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
VI.1) INFORMATION ABOUT RECURRENCE
This is a recurrent procurement: no
VI.2) INFORMATION ABOUT ELECTRONIC WORKFLOWS
-
VI.3) ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
-
VI.4) PROCEDURES FOR REVIEW
VI.4.1) Review body
Official name:
Rechtbank 's-Gravenhage
Postal address:
Postbus 20302
Town:
Den Haag
Postal code:
2500 EH
Country:
NL
E-mail:
voorlichting.rb.den.haag@rechtspraak.nl
Telephone:
+31 703813131
Internet address:
http://www.rechtspraak.nl/Gerechten/Rechtbanken/s-Gravenhage/
Fax:
-
VI.4.2) Body responsible for mediation procedures
Official name:
n.v.t.
Postal address:
-
Town:
nvt
Postal code:
-
27/06/2023
I. II. III. IV. VI.
- 10 -
Country:
NL
E-mail:
nvt@nvt.nl
Telephone:
-
Internet address:
http://www.nvt.nl
Fax:
-
VI.4.3) Review procedure
Precise information on deadline(s) for review procedures:
-
VI.4.4) Service from which information about the review procedure may be
obtained
-
VI.5) DATE OF DISPATCH OF THIS NOTICE
27/06/2023