=== Document: annex 3c - mandatory response format for criterion 5.2.3 ===
Annex 3 c : Mandatory response format for criterion 5.2. 3 This is a mandatory format in which you give the  required response  for criterion 5.2. 3  ‘ Experience with facilitating learning activities ’  on the basis of which this criterion can be assessed. Learning activity  1 Type: < Please name the type of  learning activity > Explanation: < Please  explain  the learning activity: why this activity was used for learning, pro’s & cons, and in what context it can be useful > Example: < Please provide an example  of  how  you  put the learning activity into practice > Learning activity   2 Type: < Please name the type of  learning activity > Explanation: < Please  explain  the learning activity: why this activity was used for learning, pro’s & cons, and in what context it can be useful > Example: < Please provide an example  of  how  you  put the learning activity into practice > Learning activity   3 Type: < Please name the type of  learning activity > Explanation: < Please  explain  the learning activity: why this activity was used for learning, pro’s & cons, and in what context it can be useful > Example: < Please provide an example  of  how  you  put the learning activity into practice >

=== Document: annex 3d - mandatory response format for criterion 5.2.4 ===
Annex 3 d : Mandatory response format for criterion 5.2. 4 This is a mandatory format in which you give the  required response  for criterion 5.2. 4  ‘ Level of collaboration with local experts ’  on the basis of which this criterion can be assessed. Evaluation  1 Explanation: < P lease explain  here   in what way  you  collaborated  with local experts or employed them  in context of the evaluation . Your explanation must clearly substantiate the level of involvement of the local expert > Level of involvement of local expert : < Please  select  the  level of involvement o f the local expert you used for this evaluation  from the options below. Remove the options that are not applicable > < A local expert was hired for logistical and other assisting tasks such as data collection > < A local expert was hired for advice on the content of the evaluation (e.g. regarding stakeholders, context, conclusions) > < A local expert was hired as one of the main evaluators and was involved throughout all phases of the study: in the design of the study, its execution, data analysis and formulating recommendations > < A local expert was hired as team-lead of the evaluation team and was responsible for the design of the study, its execution, data analysis and formulating recommendations > Name of local expert : < Please  state the name of the local expert you used for this evaluation > e-mail address of local expert < Please state the  e-mail address  of the local expert you used for this evaluation > Telephone number of local expert < Please state the  telephone number  of the local expert you used for this evaluation > Evaluation 2 Explanation: < P lease explain  here   in what way  you  collaborated with local experts or employed them in context of the evaluation . Your explanation must clearly substantiate the level of involvement of the local expert > Level of involvement of local expert : < Please  select  the  level of involvement o f the local expert you used for this evaluation  from the options below. Remove the options that are not applicable > < A local expert was hired for logistical and other assisting tasks such as data collection > < A local expert was hired for advice on the content of the evaluation (e.g. regarding stakeholders, context, conclusions) > < A local expert was hired as one of the main evaluators and was involved throughout all phases of the study: in the design of the study, its execution, data analysis and formulating recommendations > < A local expert was hired as team-lead of the evaluation team and was responsible for the design of the study, its execution, data analysis and formulating recommendations > Name of local expert : < Please  state the name of the local expert you used for this evaluation > e-mail address of local expert < Please state the  e-mail address  of the local expert you used for this evaluation > Telephone number of local expert < Please state the  telephone number  of the local expert you used for this evaluation > Evaluation 3 Explanation: < Please explain  in what way  you  collaborated with local experts or employed them in context of the evaluation . Your explanation must clearly substantiate the level of involvement of the local expert > Level of involvement of local expert : < Please  select  the  level of involvement o f the local expert you used for this evaluation  from the options below. Remove the options that are not applicable > < A local expert was hired for logistical and other assisting tasks such as data collection > < A local expert was hired for advice on the content of the evaluation (e.g. regarding stakeholders, context, conclusions) > < A local expert was hired as one of the main evaluators and was involved throughout all phases of the study: in the design of the study, its execution, data analysis and formulating recommendations > < A local expert was hired as team-lead of the evaluation team and was responsible for the design of the study, its execution, data analysis and formulating recommendations > Name of local expert : < Please  state the name of the local expert you used for this evaluation > e-mail address of local expert < Please state the  e-mail address  of the local expert you used for this evaluation > Telephone number of local expert < Please state the  telephone number  of the local expert you used for this evaluation >

=== Document: annex 3e - mandatory response format for criterion 5.2.5.1 ===
Annex 3 e : Mandatory response format for criterion 5.2. 5.1 This is a mandatory format in which you give the for criterion 5.2. 5.1  ‘ Thematic expertise on focus themes ’  required response  on the basis of which this criterion can be assessed.   First fill in the details of the experts you want to use for this criterion and on which focus themes their expertise lies. You then substantiate their level of expertise in the tables on pages 2 to 5. Expert  1 Name of expert : < Please state the name of the expert you use for this  criterion > e-mail address of expert < Please state the  e-mail address  of the expert you use for this  criterion > Telephone number of expert < Please state the  telephone number  of the expert you use for this  criterion > Focus theme 1 : < Please  select   one of the focus themes below > < Water > <P rivate  S ector  D evelopment > <F ood security > < Energy and climate > < Responsible Business Conduct (as goal) > Focus theme 2 : < Please  select   one of the focus themes below > < Water > <P rivate  S ector  D evelopment > <F ood security > < Energy and climate > < Responsible Business Conduct (as goal) > Please provide the e vidence   and/or substantiate your level of expertise  on  the  thematic expertise  of  Expert 1  in  the  table below . Expert 1 -  T heme 1   Evaluations  (max 3) Title Role (lead evaluator, co-author,  or  advisor ? )    Client    Type of evaluation (Baseline, MTR, FTE)    Programme    Hyperlink to report                                                     Publication (max 3) Tit le   Medium (name journal, website, etc . )    Year of publication    Hyperlink to publication                                           Presentations/Workshop or other contribution to conferences  after 2015  (max 3)  Tit le Occasion (key note or workshop ?) Y ear    Short description                                             Relevant education regarding focus theme, e .g.  degrees, courses,  or  training  ( max 3 ) Tit le Educational institute    Y ear    Short description                                                  Expert 1 -  Theme 2 (optional)   Evaluations (max 3) Title Role (lead evaluator, co-author,  or  advisor ? )    Client    Type of evaluation (Baseline, MTR, FTE)    Programme    Hyperlink to report                                                     Publication (max 3) Tit le   Medium (name journal, website, etc . )    Year of publication    Hyperlink to publication                                           Presentations/Workshop or other contribution to conferences  after 2015  (max 3)  Tit le Occasion (key note or workshop ?) Y ear    Short description                                            Relevant education regarding focus theme, e .g.  degrees, courses,  or  training  ( max 3 ) Tit le Educational institute    Y ear    Short description                                                  Please provide the e vidence   and/or substantiate your level of expertise  on  the  thematic expertise  of  Expert  2  in  the  table below . Expert 2 -  T heme 1   Evaluations  (max 3) Title Role (lead evaluator, co-author,  or  advisor ? )    Client    Type of evaluation (Baseline, MTR, FTE)    Programme    Hyperlink to report                                                     Publication (max 3) Tit le   Medium (name journal, website, etc . )    Year of publication    Hyperlink to publication                                           Presentations/Workshop or other contribution to conferences  after 2015  (max 3)  Tit le Occasion (key note or workshop ?) Y ear    Short description                                            Relevant education regarding focus theme, e .g.  degrees, courses,  or  training  ( max 3 ) Tit le Educational institute    Y ear    Short description                                                Expert 2 -  Theme 2 (optional)   Evaluations (max 3) Title Role (lead evaluator, co-author,  or  advisor ? )    Client    Type of evaluation (Baseline, MTR, FTE)    Programme    Hyperlink to report                                                     Publication (max 3) Tit le   Medium (name journal, website, etc . )    Year of publication    Hyperlink to publication                                           Presentations/Workshop or other contribution to conferences  after 2015  (max 3)  Tit le Occasion (key note or workshop ?) Y ear    Short description                                            Relevant education regarding focus theme, e .g.  degrees, courses,  or  training  ( max 3 ) Tit le Educational institute    Y ear    Short description

=== Document: annex 3f - mandatory response format for criterion 5.2.5.2 ===
Annex 3 f : Mandatory response format for criterion 5.2. 5. 2 This is a mandatory format in which you give the for criterion 5.2. 5.2  ‘ Thematic expertise on cross-cutting themes ’  required response  on the basis of which this criterion can be assessed. Equity, gender and social inclusion Substantiation of level of expertise < Please substantiate  concisely   your level of expertise on this  cross-cutting  theme , regarding relevant  degrees, courses, trainings, and to what extend the theme has been applied in evaluation studies .  In addition please  add hyperlinks to relevant evaluation studies > Greening, biodiversity and climate Substantiation of level of expertise < Please substantiate  concisely   your level of expertise on this  cross-cutting  theme , regarding relevant  degrees, courses, trainings, and to what extend the theme has been applied in evaluation studies .  In addition please  add hyperlinks to relevant evaluation studies > Responsible Business Conduct (as prerequisite/standard) Substantiation of level of expertise < Please substantiate  concisely   your level of expertise on this  cross-cutting  theme , regarding relevant  degrees, courses, trainings, and to what extend the theme has been applied in evaluation studies .  In addition please  add hyperlinks to relevant evaluation studies >

=== Document: annex 5 - draft fa evaluations international programmes 202311014 ===
Framework Agreement (Arvodi 2018) relating to Evaluations International 
Programmes of RVO  
IUC number:  202311014  
 
  
The undersigned: 
 
1. The State of the Netherlands, which has its seat in The Hague,  
represented by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Climate Policy, legally  represented in this 
matter by [signatory’s name and position] , 
hereinafter referred to as the Contracting Authority,  
 
and 
 
2. [Contractor’s full name and legal form],  
which has its registered  office in …, legally represented in this matter by  
... [and ...] [signatory’s name], hereinafter referred to as the Contractor,  
 
 
WHEREAS: 
 
1. The Contracting Authority wishes, in relation to the performance of Services in the area of 
evaluations of international programmes of RVO , to agree fixed terms for a certain period 
with [enter number of framework contractors] service providers ; 
 
2. To this end, the Contracting Authority wishes to conclude a Framework Agreement  having 
an initial term of 24 months , with two optional extensions of 12 months each  (hereafter  
referred to as : ‘the Framework Agreement’ ), laying down the conditions applicable to all 
contracts for the performance of Services to be awarded by the Contracting Authority 
during the said term;  
 
3. An EU contract award procedure for the selection of Parties to this framework agreement 
has been condu cted on the basis of the Tender  Document and subject to the Public 
Procurement Act 2012;  
 
4. The Contracting Authority has judged the Contractor’s bid, and those of [ number ] other 
Parties, to offer the best price -quality ratio; 
 
5. This Framework  Agreement lays down the conditions that apply to all Further Agreements  
for the performance of Services that the Contracting Authority intends to award during the 
term of this Framework Agreement and that may or may not be awarded to the Contractor 
after competition between the Framework Contractors based on the award criterion of the 
most economically advantageous tender ;  
 
AGREE AS FOLLOWS: 
 
A number of terms in this Framework Agreement  are written with initial capitals. These terms are 
defined in article 1 of the General Government Terms and Conditions for Publ ic Service Contracts 
2018 (ARVODI 2018). In derogation therefrom or in addition thereto, the following terms are 
defined as follows for the purposes of this Framework Agreement : 
 
 
 
 
Framework Agreement relating to  evaluations of international programmes of RVO    
   2 
 
Tender  Document:  the Contracting Authority’s document dated [ date], ref. 202311014 , which 
describes and explains participation in the Framework Agreement for the performance of Services 
during a certain period, the tender procedure to be followed and the selection and award criteria.  
 
Services : the work that the Contractor is to perform for the Contracting Authority under the terms  
of a Further Agreement  concluded on the basis of this Framework Agreement  in the area of 
evaluations of international programmes of RVO .   
 
Tender : the tender dated  xxx, submitted by the Contractor on the basis of the Tender Document in 
the context of the EU contract  award procedure  dated …. 
 
Further Agreement : a written agreement signed by the Contracting Authority and the Contractor 
based on the Framework Agreement and in accordance with the Request for Quotations  of which 
the Contracting Authority may award the Contractor contracts for the performance of Services 
during the term of this Framework Agreement.  
 
Quotation: an offer to perform Services submitted by the Contractor to the Contracting Authority in 
respons e to a Request for Quotations under this Framework Agreement . 
 
Request for Quotations : an invitation by the Contracting Authority under this Framework 
Agreement  to all Framework Contractors to submit a Quotatio n for a public service contract.  
 
Framework Contractor : a tenderer selected to be Party to the Framework Agreement relating to the 
performance of Services in the area of evaluations of international program mes of RVO. 
 
 
1. Object of the Framework Agreement 
 
1.1  During the term of this Framework Agreement the Contracting Authority may issue Requests 
for Quotations for Further Agreements  to perform Services. In response to the Request for 
Quotations, the Contractor must submit a Quotation that is not less favourable than the 
Tender submitted by the Contractor. If the Further Agreement  referred to in the Request for 
Quotations is awarded b y the Contracting Authority to the Contractor on the basis of the 
award criteria for the further award stipulated in the Tender  Document, the Contractor must 
perform that Further Agreement  in accordance with the conditions of this Framework 
Agreement . To this end, the Contractor must in that case conclude a Further Agreement  with 
the Contracting Authority.  
 
1.2 The following documents are an integral part of this Framework Agreement . In the event of 
inconsistencies, a higher ranked document takes precedence  over a lower ranked document:  
1. this document  including schedules ; 
2. the Memorandum of  Information , [date]; 
3. the Tender Document;  
4. the ARVODI-2018; 
5. the Tender issued  by the Contractor to the Contracting Authority on [date], ref …. 
 
1.3  The Contracting Authority is entitled but not obliged to award contracts for the performance 
of Services during the term of this Framework Agreement . The Contractor cannot therefore 
claim any right whatsoever to be awarded contracts for the performance of Services during 
the term of this Framework Agreement . 
  
1.4 The terms of this Framework Agreement  apply in full to all Further Agreement s concluded 
during the term of this Framework Agreement  between the Contracting Authority and the 
Contractor concerning contracts for the performance of Services specified in a Request for 
Quotations, unless a Further Agreement  expressly departs from this Framework Agreement . 
 
1.5 A Further Agreement  states th e specific Services to which it relates and its duration.  
 
 
 
 
Framework Agreement relating to  evaluations of international programmes of RVO    
   3 
 
1.6 The result of the Services performed under each Further Agreement must in any case be laid 
down in the form of a final report. The final report must in any event state that the 
Contracting Authority is the copyright holder, specify the results achieved, the methods and 
techniques applied, and the resulting conclusions and recommendation s, and contain a list of 
contents and a summary.  
 
1.7 The final report must be submitted digitally. In addition, Contractor ensures that its online 
publications of r eport s prepared as part of an evaluation performed under this Contract, 
comply with the WCA G guidelines. The Contracting Authority will specify any further 
specifications for the format of the final report in the Further Agreement . 
 
 
2. Duration of the Framework Agreement 
 
2.1 This Framework Agreement  comes into effect on <<datum>>  and has an initial contract 
period of 24 months  with two (2) times an option to extend this Framework Agreement, to 
be exercised unilaterally by the Contracting Authority, under the same conditions, each 
time with a maximum period of twelve (12) months . The total duration of the Framework 
Agreement  is therefore maximum 48 months , including extension options.  
If the Contracting Authority does not wish to make use of an extension option, he will notify 
the Contractor in writing of this no later than  three (3) months before the expiry of the 
initial or current contract period. In that case, the Framework Agreement will end by 
operation of law after the initial contract period or the contract period applicable at that 
time. In the absence of such a mes sage from the Contracting Authority, an option to 
extend takes effect automatically, if and insofar as such an option is still open.  
 
2.2 Termination of this Framework Agreement  for whatever reason does not affect rights and 
obligations resulting from Further Agreements . The terms of this Framework Agreement  
continue to apply to any Further Agreements  remaining in force after this Framework 
Agreement  has ended.  
 
2.3  The duration of any Further Agreements  awarded to the Contractor under this Framework 
Agreement  will be stipulated in the individual Further Agreements  for each contract for the 
performance of Services.  
 
2.4 Contracting authority is entitled to terminate this framework agreement prematurely as  soon 
as the maximum value and/or amount of the contract is reached, or is threatened to be 
exceeded, without any further compensation. Contracting authority shall inform Contractor 
as soon as possible if and when he wants to invoke this right and he will observe a 
reasonable notice period.  
 
 
3. Awarding Further Agreements 
 
3.1  For each evaluation to be performed under this Framework Agreement , the six Framework 
Contractors are always put in competition by means of a Request for Quotations  (mini-
competition).  The rates agreed within the framework of the Framework Agreement shall 
apply as a maximum for the rates to be agreed in the Further Agree ment. Framework 
contractors may therefore offer lower  rates in the tender for the Further Agreement than 
agreed in the Framework Agreement, but not higher rates. 
 After the Request for Quotations, Contracting Authority intends to enter into a Further 
Agreement with the Contractor who submits the most economically advantageous Quotation 
for the evaluation. To this end, the Contractors with whom a Framework Agreement has 
been concluded are again called upon to compete. In each Quotation, Contracting Authority  
aims to take the quality into account for 90% and the price for 10% in order to arrive at the 
Quotation with the best price -quality ratio. 
 
 
 
 
 
Framework Agreement relating to  evaluations of international programmes of RVO    
   4 
 
 
3.2 Every Request for Quotations procedure has at least one round of questions. Contractor is 
obliged to notify in writing no later than the deadline for asking questions for th e first round 
of questions  whether it will submit a quotation . In case after that deadline it appears that 
none of the Contractors  will submit a quotation  then Contracting Authority  will tender that 
evaluation assignment outside the Framework Agreement. If th e value of the evaluation 
assignment is below the European tender limit, the evaluation will be put out to tender by 
multiple or single negotiated tender  with parties other than those under the framework 
agreement.  
 
3.3 The Contractor must submit a Quotation, having regard to the provisions of this Framework 
Agreement, within the number of  working days stated in the  Request for Quotations. The 
Contracting Authority will not be required to pay to obtain a Quotation.  
 
3.4     The Quotation, including the fee, must comply with and may not be less favourable than the 
Tender submitted.  
 
 
4. Price and other financial provisions 
 
4.1 The maximum  value of the Framework Agreement is EUR 6,000,000. 
 
4.2 The Contractor may invoice  for Services performed under a Further Agreement  in arrears in 
accordance with the payment schedule as stipulated in the request for quotations.  
 
4.3 The following maximum rates apply to this Framework Agreement.  
 
Experience level EUR per hour 
Junior  
Senior  
 
 
4.4 It is expressly agreed that if the Contractor does not charge VAT  but some or all of the 
Services are not exempt from VAT, the Contracting Authority will not be liable to pay the VAT 
in question . 
 
4.5 The value referred to in article 4.1 of this Framework Agreement relates to all Services to be 
performed by the Contractor under the Further Agreement in question. It includes the cost of 
any materials needed for that purpose, any travel and accommodation costs, and any 
additional costs. It does not include VA T.  
 
4.6 The agreed rates are in any case fixed until 1 January 2026. 
 
Indexation requests can only be made once a year, only in October. Before and after this 
month, indexation requests for the next year will no longer be accepted. Indexation requests 
should be sent to the following email address: contractmanagement@RVO.nl  
 
The prices and rates can be adjusted in accordance with the CBS Collective Labor Agreement 
wages per hour including special rewards, category business services. The monthly figure of 
the most recent published month is used for this, whereby the index figure of the month of 
the commencement date of the Contract is set at 100%.  
 
The Contractor must submit the application specified with a printout from the CBS -Statline 
and make a reference in the application to the relevant Contract with the Client. The 
application includes a statement of the previous versus the new prices and rates.  
 
After receipt of the request, the Client will confirm to the Contractor whether this req uest has 
been approved.  
 
 
 
Framework Agreement relating to  evaluations of international programmes of RVO    
   5 
 
 
4.7 Invoicing by the Contractor must submit invoices in the manner prescribed in the Request for 
Quotations.   
  
4.8  Payment will be made once the Services performed in accordance with a Further Agreement  
have been received and accepted.  
 
 
5. Contacts / Project managers 
 
5.1 The contact person of the Contracting Authority is  xxx 
The contact person of the Contractor is  xxx 
 
5.2 At least once  per year, the contacts of the two Parties will hold consultations on the way in 
which this Framework Agreement  is being implemented  (interim evaluation(s)).  
 
5.3  Notwithstan ding the provisions of article 10 .2 of the ARVODI 2018, the contacts cannot 
make legally binding agreements on the P arties’ behalf. 
 
 
6. Time and place 
 
6.1  The work relating to the Services specified in a Further Agreement  will be carried out at the 
place(s) stipulated in the Further Agreement . 
 
6.2 Each Party undertakes to give the other Party’s Staff access to the place where the work 
relating to the Services specified in the Further Agreement  must be performed and also t o 
enable such Staff to perform the work in workin g conditions that reflect that P arty’s usual 
practice and in normal office hours. The Parties undertake to instruct their Staff to abide by 
the house, security and confidentiality  rules applicable at the pla ce where the work is to be 
carried out.  
 
 
7. Other Terms and Conditions 
 
7.1 This Framework Agreement  and a contract for the performance of Services in accordance 
with a Further Agreement  are govern ed exclusively by the ARVODI 201 8 (already in the 
Parties’ possession), in so far as this Framework Agreement does not depart therefrom. Any 
general and special terms and conditions drawn up by the Contractor do not apply.  
 
 
8. Conditions applicable to evaluation data 
 
8.1 General 
a. The Contracting Authority will not use the evaluation methods developed by the 
Contractor under the latter’s own management without the Contractor’s permission.  
b. The Contracting Authority itself may at any time analyse or otherwise process the 
evaluation data, or have such analysis or processing carried out, or complete the 
evaluation, or have it completed.   
 
8.2 Transfer of title to evaluation data 
 The Contractor transfers to the Contracting Authority, which transfer the Contracting 
Authority accepts , the title to all the data received, acquired and/or produced and processed 
by the Contractor for the purpose of the evaluation, in so far as the Contractor has that data 
at its disposal and in so far as it records data that is part of the evaluation. The transfer 
takes place by virtue of the fact that both Parties hereby declare that the Contractor will 
keep the data referred to for the Contracting Authority. The data to which the title is to be 
 
 
 
Framework Agreement relating to  evaluations of international programmes of RVO    
   6 
 
transferred does not include the personal details  used for t he purpose of the evaluation, 
unless this data was obtained through or on the instructions of the Contracting Authority.  
 
8.3 Both Parties inform each other in case they publish  evaluations, research, a nd/or results 
based on the data collected in context of an evaluation performed under this Framework 
Agreement. If the results to be published contradict in anyway results already published 
Contractor and Contracting Authority determine by mutual agreement  how to deal with these 
contradictions and if they can be published.  
 
 
9.  Retention of data 
 
9.1 Unless otherwise agreed in writing, the Contractor will retain the research  data referred to in 
this Contract for the Contracting Authority for the duration of the Contract.  
 
9.2 Once the retention year period has ended the Contractor will make the data available to the 
Contracting Authority or will destroy it free of charge at the latter’s request. If the Contractor 
does not notify the Contracting Authority of the end of the retention period , the retention of 
the data will be tacitly continued until one  of the two Parties gives written notice of its 
discontinuation.  
 
 
10. Declaration of integrity 
 
The Contractor affirms that it has not offered or given members of the Contracting 
Authority’s Staff any benefit in order to be selected to be party to this Framework Agreement 
or in order to obtain Further Agreements  for the performance of Services, nor a rranged for 
them to be offered or given any such benefit, nor will it offer or give any such benefit or 
arrange for any such benefit to be offered or given. It undertakes not to do so in the future 
with a view to inducing any members of the Contracting Aut hority’s Staff to perform or 
refrain from performing any act.  
 
 
11. Final provisions 
 
11.1 Any derogations from this Framework Agreement or a Further Agreement  are binding only if 
they have been expressly agreed by the Parties in writing. 
 
11.2 Any written or oral agreements previously made by the Parties about the award of contracts 
for the performance of Services, whether under a Further Agreement  or not, are nullified by 
the signature of  this Framework Agreement . 
 
 
 
Done and signed in duplicate . 
 
The Hague,    [place], 
[date]:   [date]:  
 
For the Minister of    [name Contractor] 
Economic Affairs and Climate Policy,  
and commissioned by   
[Contractor’s name][name of portfolio] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Framework Agreement relating to  evaluations of international programmes of RVO    
   7 
 
Jan van Putten,    [signatory’s name] 
Team Manager Procurement Office      [signatory’s position] 
[Schedule(s): … ]