=== Document: 1 guide sbir dm ===
SBIR in Developing Markets 
Guide for businesses 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This guide provides businesses with information on how to submit a bid for SBIR in Developing 
Markets challenges, the assessment procedure and the conditions for executing a contract for SBIR 
DM. This Guide has been developed by SBIR DM team of the Netherlands Enterprise agency (RVO).  
  

   
 
SBIR in Developing Markets – Guide for Businesses – March 2026 2 
 
SBIR in Developing Markets focuses on developing innovations for societal challenges. An innovation 
is defined as (the application of) a developed product, service or process that is new or new within a 
specific context in which it did not previously exist. 
 
  

   
 
SBIR in Developing Markets – Guide for Businesses – March 2026 3 
Introduction 
SBIR in Developing Markets (SBIR DM) is a programme implemented by the Netherlands 
Enterprise Agency (RVO) with phased innovation competitions that focus on societal challenges in 
selected low and middle-income countries. This multi-year programme is initiated by the Ministry 
of Foreign Affairs. It provides seed money to entrepreneurs, helping them create positive change 
by developing promising new markets. It combines Dutch business skills with innovative solutions 
to specific societal challenges, and it creates opportunities for local businesses to grow. 
SBIR in DM challenges entrepreneurs to transform a societal challenge into a viable business idea; to 
develop new products, processes, and services for African markets. It leverages the creativity of 
entrepreneurs to solve societal problems. Dutch entrepreneurs and their partners in the target 
countries are challenged to study a societal challenge together and turn an innovative idea into a 
concrete, marketable product or service. 
SBIR in DM provides innovative entrepreneurs the opportunity to enter developing markets. These 
entrepreneurs may have never worked outside the EU, but it helps if they have some knowledge of 
the target country. All kinds of entrepreneurs and businesses are welcome to join. SBIR in DM 
provides seed money to help collaborate, form partnerships and integrate innovative ideas into the 
local context. It also helps with market access and attracting further investment. An innovation can 
be either technological or non-technological. 
Every SBIR DM call leads to several R&D contracts1 to develop and test prototypes. Ideas can only be 
submitted during the limited period in which a competition is open. Even though contracts for R&D 
services fall outside the scope of the EU procurement directive, the procurement of R&D remains 
governed by the Treaty principles of transparency, equal treatment, and non-discrimination.  
The results deriving from work done under the contract, including the Intellectual Property Rights 
(IPR), belong to the contractor. IPR will not be transferred to RVO. However, RVO does obtain certain 
rights. The difference compared to exclusive R&D when businesses transfer the IPR are transferred 
to RVO is reflected in the price for the contracts.  
  
 
1 SBIR DM is a Precommercial Procurement, an approach for the procurement of research and development 
(R&D) solutions outside the scope of the procurement directives. It is characterised by risk benefit sharing 
between the public and private actors and by co mpetitive procurement (designed to exclude state aid).  
 
   
 
SBIR in Developing Markets – Guide for Businesses – March 2026 4 
Contents 
Introduction 3 
1. The Call 6 
1.1 Documents 6 
1.2 Questions and communications 6 
2. Expression of Interest  7 
2.1 Assessment of the Expressions of Interest7 
3. Bid SBIR DM Phase 1 8 
3.1 Components of your bid 8 
3.2 Requirements for the bid Phase 18 
3.3 Main contractor and subcontractors 8 
3.4 Price and duration of the contract9 
4. Assessment process Phase  1 10 
4.1 Assessment committee  10 
4.2 The assessment criteria 10 
4.3 Quality threshold 11 
4.4 Contracting 11 
4.5 Confidentiality 11 
5. Phase 1: The feasibility study 13 
5.1 Contracting 13 
5.2 Intellectual property rights (IPR) 13 
5.3 The feasibility study 13 
5.4 Phase 1 result: feasibility report 13 
5.5 Changes during Phase 1 13 
6. Bid Phase 2 14 
6.1 Bid request and parties 14 
6.2 Components of your bid Phase 2 14 
6.3 Price and duration of the contract14 
6.4 Requirements for the bid Phase 2 14 
   
 
SBIR in Developing Markets – Guide for Businesses – March 2026 5 
7. Assessment process Phase  2 15 
8. Phase 2: Research and development  15 
8.1 Contracting 15 
8.2 Intellectual property rights 15 
8.3 Phase 2 results 15 
8.4 Changes during Phase 2 15 
9. Commercialisation – after phase 2 16 
10. Forms and templates 16 
11. Detailed legal provisions 17 
11.1 Requirements to parties 17 
11.2 Research, development and innovation 17 
11.3 Relevant European definitions for Research, Development and Innovation  19 
12. Sample contracts – public service contracts 21 
12.1 Sample SBIR DM contract Phase 1 (only in Dutch available) 21 
12.2 Sample SBIR DM Phase 2 contract (only in Dutch available) 22 
 
   
 
SBIR in Developing Markets – Guide for Businesses – March 2026 6 
1. The Call 
1.1 Documents 
All information concerning the Call can be found in the following documents: 
• The Questions and Answers document. This document contains a summary of all anonymised 
questions received and the given answers.  
• The Bid request. For Phase 2, RVO will send a bid request that may contain additional 
conditions. 
• The Call. This document describes the SBIR DM Challenge and any changes to the procedure as 
written in the SBIR DM Guide. 
• The SBIR DM Guide. The current document, which describes the procedure of the Call. 
• The templates, application form and the model contract to which reference is made in this 
guide. 
If there are contradictions between the above documents, the aforementioned document has 
priority above the later mentioned document. The mentioned documents can be downloaded from 
the website mentioned in the Call. These documents contain information about both Phase 1 and 
Phase 2.  
 
1.2 Questions and communications  
Questions can be directed to the RVO SBIR DM team in writing via sbir@rvo.nl until the deadline 
mentioned in the Call. There is also the opportunity to ask questions during the information 
meeting(s). Details about these meetings can be found in the Call and on SBIR in Developing Markets 
– Innovation programme | RVO.nl. The answers to the questions will be published in the ‘Questions 
and Answers (Q&A) document’ on the RVO website and on TenderNed as soon as possible after the 
meeting(s).  
 
This Q&A document will be updated regularly, until 9 working days prior to the closing date for bids. 
The identity of the questioner will not be disclosed. It will contain a summary of both questions and 
answers from the information meeting(s) and those addressed to the contact point.  
 
It is not possible to discuss your idea with RVO. 
 
Amendments are changes to the Call documents that RVO makes in writing and issues to all 
applicants. Only under exceptional circumstances amendments will be issued after proposals have 
been submitted. In such circumstances, RVO will notify all Applicants of the required action. 
 
It is not permitted to contact the members of the assessment committee prior to Phase 1 in the 
context of an SBIR DM call. If you do so, you may be excluded from further competition. 
 
  
   
 
SBIR in Developing Markets – Guide for Businesses – March 2026 7 
2. Expression of Interest 
In order to enter a SBIR DM competition, you need to register your idea or intended innovation with 
an “Expression of Interest” via the online form mentioned in the Call. The questions in this form will 
vary depending on the challenge. In general, you will be asked to describe your innovation and the 
context of the chosen country, how this fits within the company strategy, your expertise, what the 
challenges and risks are, and why research and development (R&D) is necessary. In addition, you will 
be asked to answer questions about the local partners and questions related to the specific 
challenge.  
This step prevents you from investing a lot of time in a bid with a detailed project plan that is not, or 
less, suitable or is considered to have little chance of success in a specific SBIR DM competition. 
The Call specifies the deadline for submitting the Expression of Interest and the maximum number of 
entrepreneurs who may receive a bid request for Phase 1. Details about the submission of the bid 
will be specified in the bid request. 
 
2.1 Assessment of the Expressions of Interest  
Experts from RVO and will assess which Expressions of Interest  are most in line with the Call’s 
objectives, whether it concerns R&D and if the idea looks promising. The maximum number of 
Expressions of Interest  that RVO will select for a Phase 1 bid request is stated in the Call. 
  
   
 
SBIR in Developing Markets – Guide for Businesses – March 2026 8 
3. Bid SBIR DM Phase 1 
If you expression of interest is selected, RVO will send you a bid request for Phase 1.  
3.1 Components of your bid  
A bid must offer a complete project. It is not possible to offer part of a project. A complete bid consists 
of: 
1. A completed online SBIR DM application form. 
2. The Phase 1 project plan according to the template (including the management summary and 
budget). 
3. The management summary as a separate document. 
4. If applicable, any additional documents mentioned in the Call.  
The submission details are set out in the Bid request.  
 
3.2 Requirements for the bid Phase 1 
RVO assesses whether the bid meets the requirements below. In the following cases, bids are not 
eligible for a contract:  
• The proposal exceeds the maximum duration of the programme.  
• The SBIR DM application form is missing. 
• The proposal is missing or is not in line with the SBIR DM proposal template. 
• If applicable: the appendix(es) is/are missing. 
• The bid offers, in any way, part of a project instead of a complete project. 
An incomplete bid may lead to exclusion from the procedure. RVO may, but is not obliged to do so, 
allow to repair minor omissions (which are not substantive and have not been mentioned above) 
after the closing of the Call. In those cases, RVO will send a request by e-mail to rectify the omissions 
within two working days. When omissions are not corrected in time, or incorrect, the bid is excluded 
from the competition and will not assessed by the assessment committee.  
The applicant is responsible to send in a complete bid in time at the right location as indicated in the 
Call document. The risk of delay during digital dispatch or incorrect / incomplete addressing is 
entirely at the expense of the provider. Bids received  after the closing date will not be included in 
the assessment process.  
  
3.3 Main contractor and subcontractors  
SBIR DM competitions are open to all organisations with research and development capabilities. 
Foundations, (housing) associations, cooperatives, start-ups, etc. may also participate. Foundations, 
associations, and cooperatives will need to provide additional justification as to why they are the 
appropriate party to develop the proposed product, process or service and successfully bring it to 
market. All organisations, including non-profit organisations, must clearly state how they intend to 
bring the developed innovation to market. E.g. by issuing licences, establish a company at the right 
time, etc. 
   
 
SBIR in Developing Markets – Guide for Businesses – March 2026 9 
An SBIR DM contract is concluded with one party. This 'main contractor' is responsible for the result 
and is administratively in charge of the project. Unless the main contractor has all expertise in-
house, he needs to cooperate with subcontractors. RVO advises you to record agreements between 
main contractor and subcontractor(s) in writing. 
In the project proposal the applicant will indicate which part of the activities will be subcontracted to 
subcontractors. Upon the request of the RVO, the main contractor could be requested to 
demonstrate in a satisfactorily manner that resources will be available to him. One way of 
demonstrating this is to submit a written commitment from the subcontractor(s) showing that the 
resources required of the subcontractor will be at the applicant’s disposal for the full duration of the 
contract.  
In section  11.1 further requirements for participating parties are set out. 
 
3.4 Price and duration of the contract  
The maximum duration of Phase 1 is 6 months. If a different period is specified in the Call, that 
different period shall apply. Within this time the feasibility phase must be completed. 
You are submitting a proposal for a specific outcome at a fixed price stated in the bid. Your bid must 
be in line with market rates. In other words, a fair price for what you are offering. When determining 
this price, please bear in mind that the intellectual property rights (IPR) remain with you.  
Note. There is no transfer of IPR to RVO. However, RVO does acquire certain rights (see section 5.2). 
A market-based price reflects the fact that the IPR remains with you and is therefore always lower 
than the price of exclusive research and development. This refers to research and development that 
you offer exclusively to the government, whereby all results arising from the contract – including all 
IPR – are exclusively for the government. You must explain the difference in the budget.  
In addition, your bid always includes VAT (please note: the amounts stated in the Call also includes 
VAT). When doing activities that concern low- and middle-income countries (DAC-ODA list) and the 
results benefits these countries, a 0% VAT rate may apply for organisations that are classified as 
entrepreneurs for VAT purposes and are established in the Netherlands.  
You will receive a fixed price for the contract and are responsible for the outcome. When conducting 
the contract, you may collaborate with a research institution or other businesses, or subcontract 
parts of the work. The scope of the contract shall never exceed the maximum price stated in the Call. 
A company may apply for funding or a grant for research in addition to or alongside the SBIR DM 
contract; however, RVO will only reimburse actual costs for which no grant has been or is being 
provided. That said, a contract under the SBIR DM may be combined with tax incentives and 
reductions in tax liability, such as the Netherlands WBSO2 tax credit for research and development. 
  
 
2 With Tax Credit for Research and Development or WBSO  (Wet Bevordering Speur- en Ontwikkelingswerk) you can lower 
your costs for Research & Development. More informatie on WBSO: Tax Credit for Research and Development | RVO.nl  
   
 
SBIR in Developing Markets – Guide for Businesses – March 2026 10 
4. Assessment process Phase 1 
4.1 Assessment committee 
A committee of experts advises on the ranking of the bids. RVO announces the members of the 
committee. The committee determines its own working method within the framework of the 
described procedure. 
 
4.2 The assessment criteria 
The Call for a specific Challenge sets out the assessment criteria used by the assessment committee 
to assess the bids. The weighting (number of points) assigned to the criteria is set out in the Call.  
 
1. Impact: to what extent does the innovation contribute to the challenge, and is this realistic? 
The greater the potential contribution of the innovation to the challenge outlined in the call, the 
higher the proposal scores. It has been made plausible that the solution is indeed a solution to the 
problem outlined and is applicable in the context. The applicant demonstrates awareness of 
developments and circumstances in the country for which the innovation is intended and has 
incorporated this knowledge into the proposal. This includes awareness on how women are affected 
by and involved in the challenge addressed. 
 A proposal also scores higher the greater the potential reach of the proposed innovative solution. 
Factors contributing to a wide reach include: the solution meets the user’s needs and is (socially) 
acceptable. In this regard, the expected contribution must be well-founded, both in terms of quality 
and, where possible, in quantitative terms. 
If the innovation impacts an existing supply chain, it is important that evidence is given into this 
chain and that the effect of the innovation is indicated. 
 
2. Innovation and expertise  
A bid scores higher if it offers a more innovative solution and it is made plausible that the approach 
will result in a concrete solution. The solution must include essential (technical) elements that align 
with the expertise of the applicant and their partners.  
The project plan for Phase 1 makes plausible that the applicant has a clear overview of the 
innovation process and presents a plan in which the relevant feasibility questions are addressed, the 
(technical) substantive risks are identified, and the necessary expertise and creativity to devise 
solutions are available or will be mobilised. 
In the project plan for Phase 2, the research and development challenges must be substantiated and 
elaborated in a plan that inspires confidence in the proposed approach. The plan contains concrete 
milestones and makes plausible how (technical) substantive risks will be mitigated in a timely 
manner within the duration of the project. 
 
   
 
SBIR in Developing Markets – Guide for Businesses – March 2026 11 
3. Economic perspective 
A higher score is awarded here to the extent that it is made plausible that the innovation can 
succeed in the market and that (future) clients will actually use and purchase the innovation 
developed.  
The project plan for Phase 1 focuses on the business model. It clearly explains why the innovation is 
of interest to clients and the added value it provides. In Phase 2, the business model is further 
developed into a business plan. The intended business model, the involvement of the right parties to 
bring the innovation to market, and a clear path to commercialisation are key factors here. 
 
4. Price (optional criterion) 
If the price is at or below the minimum price, a project receives the maximum number of points for 
price. If the price is at the maximum price, a proposal receives 0 points for price. Between the 
minimum and maximum prices, points are awarded on a linear scale. If the minimum price is not 
explicitly stated, it is €0. 
4.3 Quality threshold  
Only bids that achieve at least 60% of the maximum of points per criterion are eligible for 
consideration for a contract, with exception of the price criterion. The assessment committee 
recommends awarding contracts to the highest-ranked bids, within the maximum budget and/or 
quantity specified in the Call. 
Only bids that score above the quality threshold will be ranked. If the proposals, to the opinion of 
the assessment committee, according to these standards are of insufficient quality, the assessment 
committee will advise not to spend the entire budget published in the Call, or not to award the total 
number of intended contracts. 
4.4 Contracting 
The assessment committee advises RVO on the ranking. RVO decides on awarding the contracts on 
behalf of the Netherlands Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The outcome is determined after the decision 
of RVO. RVO will inform the applicants about the award decision as soon as possible, usually within 8 
weeks after the deadline for sending in the bids.  
Successful and unsuccessful applicants will receive the award decision and feedback on their 
individual proposal. RVO will send the contracts shortly thereafter to the successful applicants. RVO 
will send the aforesaid award decision to the main contractor as stated in the bid.  
If you are dissatisfied with the services of the RVO please refer to the complaints procedure at Filing 
a Complaint | RVO.nl. A substantiated complaint is valuable for our organisation. It provides us with 
an opportunity to improve our services.  
4.5 Confidentiality  
The principle of public access to official documents means that public documents and records (with a 
few exceptions) should be made available. The principle is balanced by the obligation of professional 
secrecy, that sets down that public authorities are obliged to protect business secrets of others, if 
disclosure may seriously harm their interests. 
   
 
SBIR in Developing Markets – Guide for Businesses – March 2026 12 
Information from the bids is confidential in accordance to above. However, RVO will distribute and 
publish the following information about the bids that are awarded with contracts: 
• The name of the organisation 
• The title of the proposal 
• The public summary  
Experts, employees of RVO and other persons invited to support in the assessment and award 
process will handle all information confidentially in accordance to above. Experts with a conflict of 
interest with one or more of the proposals will not assess these proposals. All parties involved in the 
assessment procedure  are bound by a confidentiality agreement and experts will sign a declaration 
prior to assessing the proposals. 
  
   
 
SBIR in Developing Markets – Guide for Businesses – March 2026 13 
5. Phase 1: The feasibility study  
5.1 Contracting 
If you are awarded a contract, RVO will send you a letter about the assessment  and the contract as 
an annex. It is standard practice to pay an advance of 80 to 100% of the bid at the start of the 
project. Any remaining amount will be paid by RVO once the project has been completed to RVO’s 
satisfaction. The exact schedule for advance payments can be found in the assignment letter or 
contract. You may submit an invoice for the first advance payment at the same time as you send the 
signed contract. See section 12.1 for a sample contract. 
5.2 Intellectual property rights (IPR)  
R&D risks and benefits will be shared between Contractors and RVO. The intellectual Property Rights 
generated within the Contract will be assigned to RVO, RVO acquires the following rights: 
• The right to use the results for promotional purposes. 
• The right to use the knowledge without paying licence fees. 
• The right to disclose the knowledge if RVO deems it necessary in the public interest. 
• The option to require the contractor to grant licences to third parties on reasonable terms. 
5.3 The feasibility study  
In the feasibility study, you examine the aspects that are important for the feasibility of your 
innovation. Following the feasibility study, the following should at least be clear: 
• what impact your innovation may have on the societal challenge, 
• whether the innovation is (technically) feasible, 
• whether development and production are feasible; and  
• whether there is market demand. And, if so, which parties are needed to bring the innovation to 
fruition. 
Naturally, you do not need to investigate matters that are already clear in advance during the 
feasibility study. 
5.4 Phase 1 result: feasibility report  
The outcome of a feasibility study is a report in which you describe the results of the study and the 
conclusions drawn from them for the next phase. The report is drawn up in accordance with the 
template for the final report of Phase 1. The fact that Phase 1 results in a report does not mean that 
Phase 1 is exclusively a desk study. An initial demonstration, for example, can be an effective way of 
investigating feasibility. Part of the final report is the completed online monitoring and evaluation 
form. 
5.5 Changes during Phase 1  
Subject to mutual agreement, changes may be made to the project during the execution of Phase 1. 
Written consent from RVO is required for any change that affects the project’s results.  
Subcontractors may be changed during the execution of the contract, provided that this does not 
adversely affect the project outcome. Where a subcontractor is replaced, the new subcontractor 
must, in the opinion of RVO, be at least as competent as the previous subcontractor.  
   
 
SBIR in Developing Markets – Guide for Businesses – March 2026 14 
6. Bid Phase 2 
6.1 Bid request and parties  
RVO will send a bid request for Phase 2 if: 
• Phase 1 has been completed successfully, and 
• The feasibility study concluded that the innovation is feasible. 
Phase 2 is open only to parties who have received a bid request and who meet the conditions also 
set for parties in Phase 1. 
A company other than the main contractor for Phase 1 may function as the main contractor for 
Phase 2 if this is deemed logical based on the feasibility study. The main contractor for Phase 1 must 
make this clear no later than the date on which the Phase 1 report is submitted. 
Note. The Phase 2 bid request may contain additional conditions. 
6.2 Components of your bid Phase 2  
A bid must offer a complete project. It is not possible to offer part of a project. A complete bid consists 
of: 
• A completed online SBIR DM application form. 
• The Phase 1 project plan according to the template (including the management summary and 
budget). 
• The management summary as a separate document. 
• The business plan according to the template. 
• If applicable, any additional documents mentioned in the Call.  
The submission details are set out in the Phase 2 bid request.  
All the requirements and conditions applicable to bids for Phase 1 also apply to the bid for Phase 2. 
Only the annexes to the form differ, as indicated above. In addition, the following supplementary 
condition applies: The tender must focus exclusively on research and development. Activities that do 
not fall within this scope may not be included in the tender. The scope of research and development 
is described in section Fout! Verwijzingsbron niet gevonden.. 
6.3 Price and duration of the contract  
The provisions for Phase 1 also apply to Phase 2 (see section 3.4). The only difference is that Phase 2 
lasts for a maximum of two years. If a different period is specified in the Call, that different period 
shall apply. 
6.4 Requirements for the bid Phase 2 
In addition to the requirements mentioned under section 3.2 ‘Requirements for the Bid Phase 1’, 
RVO will not present a Phase 2 bid to the assessment committee if the business  plan is missing.  
   
 
SBIR in Developing Markets – Guide for Businesses – March 2026 15 
7. Assessment process Phase 2 
The Phase 2 the assessment process only differs on the following points of the Phase 1 assessment 
process (see section 4): 
• Generally, applicants for Phase 2 are given a 15-minute opportunity to clarify and discuss their 
bid with the assessment committee and answer any questions. For Phase 1, this is usually not 
the case. 
• When assessing the economic perspective, explicit consideration is given to the prospects for a 
follow-up following the completion of the Phase 2 project. 
 
 
8. Phase 2: Research and development 
8.1 Contracting 
If you are awarded a contract for Phase 2, RVO will send you a letter, explaining the assessment. The 
contract is an annex. It is standard practice to pay an advance of 20 to 40% of the bid at the start of 
the project. Up till 90% can be paid during the implementation of the Phase 2 project. The final 
amount will be paid by RVO once the project has been completed to RVO’s satisfaction.  
The exact schedule for advance payments can be found in the assignment letter or contract. You 
may submit an invoice for the first advance payment at the same time as you send the signed 
contract. See section 12.2 for a sample contract. 
8.2 Intellectual property rights  
The contractor retains the intellectual property rights for Phase 2 as well. The rights acquired by RVO 
are the same as those for Phase 1 (see section 5.2). 
8.3 Phase 2 results  
At the end of Phase 2, the following will be delivered: 
• A final report in accordance with the template for Phase 2. 
• A demonstration of a tested product, service or process.  
• A completed monitoring and evaluation form. 
The following supporting documentation is available for inspection upon request: 
• A (technical) specification of the product or a description of the service or process; 
• A test report; 
• A production plan or plan for the delivery of the service or process); 
• Technical documentation; and 
• The updated business plan. 
8.4 Changes during Phase 2  
The conditions for making changes during Phase 2 are the same as those for Phase 1.  
   
 
SBIR in Developing Markets – Guide for Businesses – March 2026 16 
9. Commercialisation – after phase 2 
Bringing the innovation to market is not funded by SBIR DM. The company will keep RVO informed 
of the progress of the commercialisation process. 
 
 
10. Forms and templates 
On the RVO website you can download the following templates: 
• Template Project plan Phase 1 
• Template Feasibility report Phase 1 
• Template Project plan Phase 2 
• Template Business plan Phase 2 
• Template Final report Phase 2 
The SBIR DM Expression of Interest form and the application form will be made available when a Call 
is open.  
 
  
   
 
SBIR in Developing Markets – Guide for Businesses – March 2026 17 
 
11. Detailed legal provisions 
11.1  Requirements to parties  
Anyone who meets the following conditions may submit a tender for Phase 1 (or, in the absence of 
Phase 1, Phase 2) of an SBIR DM. 
• Upon award of the contract, the contractor must be registered in the professional register or the 
commercial register in accordance with the regulations of the Member State (EU) in which they 
are established. 
• The applicant must not have been convicted by a final judgment or ruling under Articles 140, 
177, 177a, 178, 225, 226, 227, 227a, 227b or 232a, 328ter, second paragraph, 416, 417, 417bis, 
420bis, 420ter or 420quater of the Criminal Code. 
• The applicant is not in a state of bankruptcy or liquidation, has not ceased trading, is not in a 
moratorium on payments or a composition, nor is the applicant in any other comparable 
situation arising from a similar procedure provided for in the laws or regulations applicable to 
the applicant. 
• No application for bankruptcy or liquidation has been made against the tenderer, nor are any 
proceedings for a moratorium on payments or a composition, or any other similar proceedings 
provided for in the laws or regulations applicable to the tenderer, pending. 
• The applicant is capable of performing the contract with its existing financial resources. 
• The applicant is not aware of any claims or necessary investments during the period of the 
contract’s performance that could place the organisation in a position where its financial and 
economic viability or continuity is jeopardised. 
• The applicant has not been convicted by a final court judgement in accordance with the laws or 
regulations applicable to them of an offence that compromises professional integrity (of the 
company). 
• The applicant has fulfilled its obligations regarding the payment of social security contributions 
in accordance with the legal provisions of the country in which it is established or in the country 
of the contracting authority. 
• The applicant is not guilty of demonstrable serious professional misconduct, such as fraud and 
corruption. 
• The applicant has fulfilled its obligations regarding the payment of its taxes in accordance with 
the legal provisions of the country in which it is established or of the country of the contracting 
authority. 
 
11.2  Research, development and innovation  
The following activities fall under the term ‘research and development’: 
• Experimental or theoretical activities carried out to acquire new knowledge. 
• Systematic or critical research aimed at acquiring new knowledge and skills with a view to 
developing new products, processes or services, or to significantly improving existing products, 
processes or services. 
• The acquisition, combination, shaping and use of existing scientific, technical, business and other 
relevant knowledge and skills for plans, schemes or designs of new, modified or improved 
products, processes or services. 
• The creation of designs, drawings, plans and other documentation, provided they are not 
   
 
SBIR in Developing Markets – Guide for Businesses – March 2026 18 
intended for commercial use. 
• The development of commercially viable prototypes and pilot projects, provided that the 
prototype is the final commercial product and its production is too costly to be used solely for 
demonstration and validation purposes. 
• The experimental development and testing of products, processes and services, insofar as these 
cannot be used or adapted for industrial application or commercial exploitation. 
• The production of a limited pilot batch: limited production or supply to incorporate the results of 
field trials and demonstrate that the product or service is suitable for production or supply in 
larger quantities in accordance with acceptable quality standards. 
 
The following activities do not constitute research and development: 
• Routine or periodic modifications to existing products, production lines, manufacturing 
processes, services and other routine activities, even if such modifications may involve 
improvements. 
• Prototypes whose market readiness has already been tested, and routine or periodic 
modifications to existing products, production lines, manufacturing processes or services, and 
other routine activities, even if these modifications constitute improvements. 
• Commercial development activities such as series production, delivery to achieve commercial 
viability or to recoup R&D costs, integration, customisation, incremental adjustments and 
improvements to existing products or processes. 
 
Non-technological innovation  
Industrial and experimental development often involves technical research. However, non-technical 
research can certainly make a valuable contribution to the development of a product or service. This 
must be demonstrated in the project plan. The non-technical research must be systematically and 
robustly designed, use a scientifically sound method, and the results of this research must be applied 
in the development of the product or service, and thus lead to modifications to the product or 
service. This must also be evident from the timing of the various components of the project. This can 
be achieved, for example, through a feedback loop to the technical work packages of the project.   
Implementation research, on the other hand (‘how should this product be brought to market?’, 
‘what societal barriers exist?’, a ‘use case’ or ‘calculating a business case’), where the results no 
longer influence the product or service, does not meet this criterion. Just like technical research, 
non-technical research must also involve a risk, for example that, based on the results, there is a 
chance that product development will have to be radically altered or even halted. This also means 
that exploratory studies – meaning the collation of knowledge already existing elsewhere or the 
study of matters where it is clear in advance that they will succeed, without a feedback loop to 
product development (no uncertainty/risk of failure) – cannot qualify as industrial and experimental 
development.  
  
   
 
SBIR in Developing Markets – Guide for Businesses – March 2026 19 
 
11.3  Relevant European definitions for Research, Development and Innovation 3 
‘R&D project’ means an operation that includes activities spanning over one or several categories of 
research and development defined in this framework, and that is intended to accomplish an 
indivisible task of a precise economic, scientific or technical nature with clearly pre-defined goals. A 
R&D project may consist of several work packages, activities or services, and includes clear 
objectives, activities to be carried out to achieve those objectives (including their expected costs), 
and concrete deliverables to identify the outcomes of those activities and compare them with the 
relevant objectives. When two or more R&D projects are not clearly separable from each other and 
in particular when they do not have independent probabilities of technological success, they are 
considered as a single project; 
‘feasibility study’ means the evaluation and analysis of the potential of a project, which aims at 
supporting the process of decision making by objectively and rationally uncovering its strengths and 
weaknesses, opportunities and threats, as well as identifying the resources  required to carry it 
through and ultimately its prospects for success; 
‘experimental development’  means acquiring, combining, shaping and using existing scientific, 
technological, business and other relevant knowledge and skills with the aim of developing new or 
improved products, processes or services, including digital products, processes or services, in any 
area, technology, industry or sector (including, but not limited to, digital industries and technologies, 
such as for example super-computing, quantum technologies, block chain technologies, artificial 
intelligence, cyber security, big data and cloud or edge technologies). This may also encompass, for 
example, activities aiming at the conceptual definition, planning and documentation of new 
products, processes or services. Experimental development may comprise prototyping, 
demonstrating, piloting, testing and validation of new or improved products, processes or services in 
environments representative of real life operating conditions where the primary objective is to make 
further technical improvements on products, processes or services that are not substantially set. This 
may include the development of a commercially usable prototype or pilot which is necessarily the 
final commercial product and which is too expensive to produce for it to be used only for 
demonstration and validation purposes. Experimental development does not include routine or 
periodic changes made to existing products, production lines, manufacturing processes, services and 
other operations in progress, even if those changes may represent improvements;  
‘industrial research’ means the planned research or critical investigation aimed at the acquisition of 
new knowledge and skills for developing new products, processes or services or aimed at bringing 
about a significant improvement in existing products, processes or services, including digital 
products, processes or services, in any area, technology, industry or sector (including, but not limited 
to, digital industries and technologies, such as super-computing, quantum technologies, block chain 
technologies, artificial intelligence, cyber security, big data and cloud technologies). Industrial 
research comprises the creation of components parts of complex systems, and may include the 
construction of prototypes in a laboratory environment or in an environment with simulated 
interfaces to existing systems as well as of pilot lines, when necessary for the industrial research and 
notably for generic technology validation; 
 
 
3 https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal -content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX:52022XC1028(03)  
   
 
SBIR in Developing Markets – Guide for Businesses – March 2026 20 
‘pre-commercial procurement’ means the public procurement of research and development 
services where the contracting authority or contracting entity does not reserve all the results and 
benefits of the contract exclusively for itself for use in the conduct of its own affairs, but shares them 
with the providers under market conditions. The contract, the object of which falls within one or 
several categories of research and development defined in this framework, must be of limited 
duration and may include the development of prototypes or limited volumes of first products or 
services in the form of a test series. The purchase of commercial volumes of products or services 
must not be an object of the same contract; 
‘process innovation’ means the implementation of a new or significantly improved production or 
delivery method (including significant changes in techniques, equipment or software) at the level of 
the undertaking (at group level in the given industry sector in the EEA), including for instance by 
making use of novel or innovative digital technologies or solutions. Excluded from this definition are 
minor changes or improvements, increases in production or service capabilities through the addition 
of manufacturing or logistical systems which are very similar to those already in use, ceasing to use a 
process, simple capital replacement or extension, changes resulting purely from changes in factor 
prices, customisation, localisation, regular, seasonal and other cyclical changes and trading of new or 
significantly improved products; 
  
   
 
SBIR in Developing Markets – Guide for Businesses – March 2026 21 
12. Sample contracts – public service contracts 
12.1  Sample SBIR DM contract Phase 1 (only in Dutch available)  
U hebt op datum een offerte  uitgebracht voor werkzaamheden  onder de projecttitel “titel”. Hierbij 
verleen ik u de opdracht tot de uitvoering van de werkzaamheden.  
Omschrijving opdracht 
De opdracht betreft de uitvoering van werkzaamheden  zoals omschreven in uw offerte.  
Termijn van de opdracht 
De opdracht moet zijn voltooid op datum 
Vergoeding. 
Vergoeding vindt plaats op basis van de vaste prijs van € opdrachtsom (incl. btw) en inclusief alle 
andere kosten. 
Contactpersoon 
De contactpersoon voor deze opdracht is: … 
Voorwaarden 
1. Op deze opdracht zijn de ‘Algemene Rijksvoorwaarden voor het verstrekken van opdrachten tot 
het verrichten van Diensten 2025 (ARVODI-2025)’ van toepassing. Eventueel door u gehanteerde 
(algemene) voorwaarden zijn niet van toepassing .  
2. De artikelen 11, 17 en 23 van de ARVODI-2025 zijn niet van toepassing.  
3. In afwijking van artikel 30 van de ARVODI-2025 behoeft Opdrachtnemer voor melding van de 
opdrachtverlening in publicaties en reclame-uitingen geen toestemming  van de Opdrachtgever. De 
Opdrachtnemer vermeldt hierbij wel dat de opdracht is uitgevoerd in het kader van een opdracht 
binnen een SBIR DM van de opdrachtgever. De Opdrachtnemer stuurt een kopie van de publicaties 
naar de Opdrachtgever. 
4. De bovengenoemde contactpersoon behandelt deze opdracht en vertegenwoordigt mij hierin. In 
afwijking van artikel 8.2 van de ARVODI-2025 kan de contactpersoon de partijen niet binden. 
5. De navolgende documenten maken deel uit van deze overeenkomst:  
• deze opdrachtbrief  
• de ARVODI-2025  
• de Nota van inlichtingen bij deze SBIR DM d.d.  
• de SBIR DM -oproep van datum  
• de SBIR DM handleiding van datum  
• uw offerte van « datum » met de titel project titel  
Voor zover deze documenten met elkaar in tegenspraak zijn, gaat het eerdergenoemde  document 
boven het later genoemde. De documenten zijn – ook ongeparafeerd – Bijlagen in de zin van artikel 
1.1 ARVODI-2025. 
6. De betaling van het totaalbedrag vindt na ontvangst van de factuur hiertoe als volgt plaats: 
• € [voorschot]  (inclusief btw) na ondertekening van akkoord op deze opdrachtbrief;  
• en het restant € [restant] (inclusief btw) na ontvangst en acceptatie van het 
eindrapport/resultaat va n de Diensten.  
Alle deelbetalingen zijn pas definitief na ontvangst en acceptatie van het eindrapport/resultaat van 
   
 
SBIR in Developing Markets – Guide for Businesses – March 2026 22 
de diensten. 
7. De prestaties worden geleverd in de vorm van c.q. afgerond door indiening van een eindrapport 
conform het format van de SBIR DM. Het eindrapport dient in ieder geval in digitale vorm te worden 
opgeleverd.  
8. Opdrachtnemer dient mee te werken aan evaluaties die tijdens en na afloop van het 
haalbaarheidsonderzoek zullen plaatsvinden. 
 
Contract en facturering 
Ik verzoek u de bijgevoegde kopie van deze opdrachtbrief rechtsgeldig voor akkoord ondertekend 
aan mij terug te zenden.  Indien ik deze ondertekende  kopie niet binnen 14 dagen heb ontvangen, 
behoud ik mij het recht voor om terug te komen op deze opdrachtverlening. 
 
12.2  Sample SBIR DM Phase 2  contract (only in Dutch available)  
OVEREENKOMST 
Referentienummer: «DOSSIER_REFERENTIE»  
PARTIJEN:  
  
1. De Staat der Nederlanden, waarvan de zetel is gevestigd te Den Haag, te dezen vertegenwoordigd 
door <de opdrachtgever> namens deze naam van de Rijksdienst voor Ondernemend Nederland, 
hierna te noemen: ‘Opdrachtgever’;  
2. <opdrachtnemer> gevestigd te <plaats> te dezen rechtsgeldig vertegenwoordigd door   <naam> 
hierna te noemen: ‘Opdrachtnemer’,  
  
KOMEN HET VOLGENDE OVEREEN:  
  
In deze Overeenkomst is een aantal begrippen met een hoofdletter gebruikt. Aan deze begrippen 
komt de betekenis toe die hieraan wordt gegeven in artikel 1 van de ‘Algemene Rijksvoorwaarden 
voor het verstrekken van opdrachten tot het verrichten van diensten  2025’ (ARVODI-2025). 
  
1. Voorwerp van de Overeenkomst  
  
1.1 Opdrachtgever verleent aan Opdrachtnemer opdracht tot het verrichten van Diensten 
overeenkomstig de offerte van datum, welke opdracht Opdrachtnemer bij deze aanvaardt. 
  
1.2 De navolgende documenten maken deel uit van deze Overeenkomst. Voor zover deze 
documenten met elkaar in tegenspraak zijn, prevaleert het eerdergenoemde document boven het 
later genoemde: 
 
1. deze Overeenkomst  
2. de ARVODI-2025  
3. het offerteverzoek van datum 
4. de nota van inlichtingen bij deze SBIR DM van datum 
5. de SBIR DM oproep van datum 
   
 
SBIR in Developing Markets – Guide for Businesses – March 2026 23 
6. de SBIR DM handleiding van datum 
7. Uw offerte van datum voor het project project 
 
1.3 De in artikel 1.1 bedoelde documenten zijn – ook ongeparafeerd – Bijlagen in de zin van de 
ARVODI-2025.  
  
1.4 De prestaties worden geleverd in de vorm van c.q. afgerond door indiening van een eindrapport 
conform het SBIR DM format. Het eindrapport bevat in elk geval een opgave van de bereikte 
onderzoeksresultaten, de daarbij gebruikte methoden en technieken, a lsmede de daarop 
gebaseerde conclusies. U vindt het format op RVO  
  
Het eindrapport wordt in digitale vorm aangeleverd bij RVO. Tegelijk met het eindrapport dient 
online het SBIR DM eindrapport vragenformulier ingevuld te worden. De link naar het formulier 
vindt u in het Format SBIR DM Eindrapport fase 2.  
  
1.5 Het eindrapport dient vergezeld te gaan van een openbare samenvatting van maximaal twee 
pagina’s A-4 volgens het “SBIR DM Format Openbare samenvatting project eind fase 2”. Deze 
samenvatting dient eveneens in digitale vorm te worden geleverd.   
1.6 Daarnaast realiseert Opdrachtnemer in fase 2 een opstelling en geeft na afloop een presentatie 
aan Opdrachtgever waarmee de unieke marktvoordelen van de innovatie overtuigend voor 
potentiële investeerders en klanten kunnen worden gedemonstreerd.  
  
1.7 Aan het einde van de opdracht zijn bovendien de hieronder genoemde zaken gerealiseerd. Op 
aanvraag wordt deze documentatie beschikbaar gesteld aan Opdrachtgever:  
• een (technische) specificatie van het product of een beschrijving van de dienst;  
• een testprotocol;  
• een productieplan (plan voor de uitvoering van de dienst);  
• technische documentatie, en  
• het geactualiseerde businessplan.  
  
2. Totstandkoming en duur van de Overeenkomst  
  
2.1 Deze overeenkomst komt tot stand door ondertekening van de Overeenkomst door alle partijen.  
  
2.2 De overeengekomen Diensten moeten uiterlijk op <<einddatum>>  voltooid zijn.  
  
3. Prijs en overige financiële bepalingen  
  
3.1. Betalingen geschieden op basis van een vast bedrag.  
  
3.2 Het vaste bedrag bedoeld in artikel 3.1 bedraagt € offertebedra g inclusief btw, reis- en 
verblijfskosten en alle eventuele overige kosten.  
  
3.3 Betaling vindt plaats na oplevering van het eindresultaat. Voorafgaand aan en tijdens de 
werkzaamheden wor den voorschotten betaald. Voor zowel de eindafrekening als voor de 
voorschotten vindt de betaling, na ontvangst van de factuur en acceptatie van de rapportage, als 
volgt plaats (voor alle bedragen geldt inclusief btw):  
€ voorschot na ondertekening van de overeenkomst (factuur kan met ondertekende opdrachtbrief 
   
 
SBIR in Developing Markets – Guide for Businesses – March 2026 24 
mee terug worden gezonden);  
€ voorschot  na ontvangst en acceptatie van de 1e voortgangsrapportage;  
-etc 
- en het restant na ontvangst en acceptatie van het eindrapport/resultaat van de Diensten.  
  
Alle deelbetalingen zijn pas definitief na ontvangst en acceptatie van het eindrapport/resultaat van 
de diensten.  
 
3.4 Opdrachtnemer zendt de facturen per mail en onder vermelding van het boven deze 
overeenkomst vermelde referentienummer en van de namen van de contactpersonen van 
Opdrachtgever en Opdrachtnemer. Indien de factuur niet volgens deze aanwijzingen wordt 
verzonden, kan dit ertoe leiden dat de factuur niet in behandeling wordt genomen of dat de 
betalingstermijn wordt verlengd.  
  
4. Contactpersonen  
  
4.1 Contactpersoon van Opdrachtgever is contactpersoon RVO, contactpersoon van Opdrachtnemer 
is naam  
     
5. Van toepassing zijnde Voorwaarden  
  
5.1 Op deze Overeenkomst zijn uitsluitend van toepassing de ‘Algemene Rijksvoorwaarden voor het 
verstrekken van opdrachten tot het verrichten van Diensten 2025’ (ARVODI-2025). De eventueel 
door Opdrachtnemer gehanteerde voorwaarden zijn niet van toepassing .   
  
5.2 Artikel 11 en 17 van de ARVODI-2025 zijn niet van toepassing.  
  
5.3 Artikel 23 van de ARVODI-2025 is niet van toepassing. Wel regelt Opdrachtnemer voor 
Opdrachtgever een passend gebruiksrecht. Daarnaast geldt dat Opdrachtnemer verplicht is onder 
eerlijke en redelijke marktvoorwaarden gebruiksrechten aan derden te verst rekken.  
  
5.4 Opdrachtnemer dient mee te werken aan evaluaties die tijdens en na afloop van het SBIR DM 
project zullen plaatsvinden tot 10 jaar na afsluiting van het project.  
  
5.5 In afwijking van artikel 30 ARVODI-2025 behoeft Opdrachtnemer voor melding van de 
opdrachtverlening in publicaties en reclame-uitingen geen toestemming van Opdrachtgever. In dat 
geval vermeldt Opdrachtnemer dat de opdracht is uitgevoerd in het kader van een SBIR DM 
opdracht van het Ministerie van Buitenlandse Zaken. De Opdrachtnemer stuurt een kopie van 
publicaties aan Opdrachtgever.  
  
6. Integriteitsverklaring  
  
Opdrachtnemer verklaart dat hij ter verkrijging van de opdracht Personeel van Opdrachtgever geen 
voordeel heeft aangeboden of doen aanbieden, gegeven of doen geven. Hij zal dat ook niet alsnog 
doen teneinde personen in dienst van Opdrachtgever te bewegen e nige handeling te verrichten of 
na te laten.  
  
7. Slotbepalingen  
   
 
SBIR in Developing Markets – Guide for Businesses – March 2026 25 
  
7.1 In aanvulling op artikel 21 van de ARVODI-2025 geldt dat in alle gevallen van voortijdige 
beëindiging van deze Overeenkomst Opdrachtgever van Opdrachtnemer kan verlangen dat deze de 
Diensten op een zodanige wijze afrondt en de resultaten zodanig overdraagt aan Opdrachtgever of 
een door hem aan te wijzen derde, dat onbelemmerde voortzetting van de opdracht mogelijk is.  
  
7.2 Afwijkingen van deze Overeenkomst zijn slechts bindend voor zover zij uitdrukkelijk tussen 
partijen schriftelijk zijn overeengekomen.  
  
7.3 Door ondertekening van deze Overeenkomst vervallen alle eventueel eerder door partijen 
gemaakte mondelinge en schriftelijke afspraken omtrent de hierbij overeengekomen Diensten.  
  
Aldus op de laatste van de twee hierna genoemde data overeengekomen en ondertekend

=== Document: 2 sbir formulier online ===
SBIR formulier 
online
2

3
Na invullen KvK 
nummer: 
automatisch adres 
opgehaald
4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

Checks:
12

13

14

15

Controle
› Aanbieder
› Contact
› Intermediair
› Project
› Checklist bijlagen
16
Hiermee 
verzend u de 
SBIR offerte
U heeft uw offerte verstuurd aan RVO
17

=== Document: 3 sbir template project plan phase 1 ===
SBIR  in Developing Markets  Template  Project Plan  1 This  template for the P roject plan phase 1 describes the information that  your  project plan must contain. In addition, the maximum length for each chapter is indicated in brackets. One A4 page corresponds to approximately 500 words.  Be specific and concise . It is tempting to copy parts of the call,  but this  general information  will not  improve  your plan .  So please, b e specific.  Kindly a void repetition  and  indicate if there is something you do not yet know.   Use photographs, illustrations, and drawings to  reinforce and  clarify  the  plan. Finally, bear in mind that a committee member must be able to  read and  assess the plan in  max  60  minutes.  Titl e .  Give the title of the project, as entered  in  the SBIR form. Public summary of the project (max. 100 words) Briefly describe in simple language what the project entails and what problem it will solve  and  for whom .  Note . If you are awarded the contract to carry out your project, we will publish this summary on our website and in news releases. Please ensure that the summary does not contain any confidential information. This summary is not part of the assessment process. Management  Summary  (max 1000 word s ) Project  and innovation  description . Briefly address the following points: Describe your  innovation  in a few sentences and explain why a feasibility study is necessary. Provide a  brief  description of your company and any partners.  Or how you intend to find these partners . Describe  briefly  how you intend to approach the project and what questions you want to answer with this feasibility study.  Then discuss  shortly  how the results of your project meet the various criteria : Impact  How does your  proposed  innovation fit within the theme of the SBIR DM call ?   W hat is your expected impact?  Can you  give an order of magnitude ?  What  specific  societal  challenge does it address ?  Innovation  and expertis e Briefly describe the  ( technical )  approach. What already exists? What is new? Where are the biggest  substan tive  challenges?  Do you have  the expertise available to make the  innovation  a success? Why is research and development necessary? Economic   perspective Describe  briefly  the market . I s the innovation  potentially  broadly applicable (multiple sectors or multiple products) or narrowly applicable (niches)?  Who will be your clients?  Are there any important market factors that could hinder the success of the  innovation ?  Context and Gender Describe the challenges you foresee  in the context of the country and how you want to engage with  networks. Also discuss  how you  intend  to involve women and what role they  can  play in your innovation.  [Note. The management summary will be shared with the NL embassies in the target countries of the call  for assessment purposes .] The  resul t and  impact (max 500 wo rds ) Describe the final result   and w hat the potential impact may be: What product, process or service  will  you  have  developed  by  the end of  phase 2?  Explain why this meets the needs of the (end) user, is it usable and acceptable? How large is the expected reach of the innovation? Substantiate with figures. How does your innovation fit within the theme of the SBIR call and how big do you expect the impact to be?   Endorse  with figures. [ Note.  A picture is worth  a thousand words ] Innovati on  paragra ph  (max 1000 word s ) Explain what is required to realise the  innovation ( product/service/process ) .  ?  What is new about your innovation compared to existing alternatives ?   What are the most important  (technical)  requirements that the result must meet?  Discuss the current international state of the art and the available information (such as literature and patents). How do you intend to protect the innovation? Are there any patents that could hinder the development of your innovation?   How will the Netherlands benefit from your learnings ?   The company and  partners (max 500  words ) This section is the company's curriculum vitae. In this section, you should clearly state why your company is the right party to develop this innovation and turn it into a commercial success. Describe any relevant experience with similar innovation processes or (collaborative) projects. Also describe any partners in this project: their expertise, the reason for collaboration and how the project fits into the (business) strategy of the project partners. Include your website and those of your partners. Economic  perspective  (max 1000 word s ) Describe your initial thoughts on the market outlook here. We realise that much is still unknown at this stage:      Is the innovation broadly applicable (multiple sectors or multiple products) or narrowly applicable (niches)?  Describe your  clients .  Who will pay for it and why? Who are your competitors and why will you beat them?  What can you learn from similar market launches? Are there any important market factors that could hinder the success of the project, such as regulations?  Context When developing innovations for developing markets, a clear perception of the challenge and appropriate solution from a local perspective is leading.  How do you intend you engage with  networks and (local) partners .   What role do you foresee in this stage for these partners and networks? What challenges do you foresee due to the local context? Think of  resource limitations (materials, funding, institutions), potential environmental impacts, cultural and social needs, and existing (informal) practices. Gender Briefly  describe the role women play in your project:  How are women affected by the challenge you address? Is this different from men?  How do you involve  women  in developing your  innovation that addresses this challenge ?   How do you intend to  let   women  profit economically from your innovation?  Implementation of the project (max 2000 words )   Objective  State the objective of the feasibility project in terms of intended results.  Indicate how the knowledge gained  in the feasibility study  will be used in  phase 2,  the research and development  trajectory . Problem definition  A good feasibility study seeks answers to questions that will help the project move forward in the R&D phase. Specify the questions you are seeking answers to.  Indicate what knowledge you wish to acquire. Indicate any bottlenecks that may arise in this regard.  Method and activities Indicate how you intend to answer the questions (what are you going to do?).  E.g. desk research, field research, interviews with stakeholders , lab research, etc. Describe the risks (‘chances of failure’) and the strategy to minimise them. Indicate how you will investigate the possibilities for strategic cooperation with other parties. Describe how you will involve women in co-creation, in accordance with their roles and interests . Project management and phasing Discuss the project organisation, the division of tasks between partners (including any third parties to be engaged), the phasing and the key employees in the project (include short  curricula vi tae ). Price A clear cost estimate is necessary for a proper assessment of the project. Below is an overview of relevant  categories .   Only fill in the items that are relevant to your project. For labour costs (of the provider or project partners), also indicate the total number of hours  and the (average) hourly wages  per partner.  Also  state the total  price  and the price for which you are offering the project. Various categories of costs excluding VAT Total in euros Total in hours  (Average) h ourly wages Labour costs Materials Machines and equipment Labour costs of project partners (specify per partner) Third party costs Other costs  (no overhead) , specify  Total  price  exclusive of VAT VAT *   Total  price  inclu d i ng  of VAT The price at which you are offering this project to us, including VAT.  Note. This price may not exceed the maximum amount stated in the call for proposals. * VAT Given that the activities concern developing countries (DAC-ODA list) and the results benefit these developing countries, the 0% VAT rate is expected to apply to the SBIR assignment in phase 2 for organisations that are classified as entrepreneurs for VAT purposes and are established in the Netherlands.  Note:  This 0% rate will not always apply to phase 1.  Consult your tax  advis e r. When determining the price, please take into account that the intellectual property remains with you, but that  RVO  does acquire certain rights. Please indicate below what price you would charge if the intellectual property  rights  were to belong entirely to  RVO .  Imagine  you were not allowed to do anything with the knowledge you had  gained once the  project  was over .  At what price would you then offer the research ?  Hypothetical bid amount if all rights were transferred to the client.     € Explanation of VAT No VAT may be charged to RVO that the main contractor and/or subcontractor has had to pay in the Netherlands or another country within the EU  or  the United Kingdom, Norway, Iceland, Liechtenstein and Switzerland.  A main contractor that is liable for VAT can be reclaimed by him in these countries.  VAT paid by the main contractor outside the EU cannot be reclaimed by the main contractor.

=== Document: 4 sbir dm template final report ph 1 ===
Template  SBIR  in Developing Markets  Final report  P hase  1 The purpose of this  template  is to ensure that the final report for  P hase 1 is concise and can be read independently. The report  usually is  approximately 10-15 pages long and consist s  of six sections. Below is a description of the topics that should be covered.    Use photographs, illustrations, and drawings to support your text.   Note . Along with this final report, please complete our questionnaire so that we can monitor the progress and effectiveness of the SBIR  DM   instrument  for  the Ministry of Foreign Affairs .   You  can find the online form here   https://www.rvo.nl/subsidies-financiering/sbir/vragenformulier   or here  https://english.rvo.nl/topics/sbir/questionnaire .   P roject  data SBIR  Reference number Project   titl e Contact  details   Begin  and  end   dat e of the  project Management  summary  (1 pag e ) The purpose of the management summary is to provide a brief overview of the most essential and decision-relevant information about the project.  What was  achieved  in  P hase 1?  Describe the objective and problem statement of the feasibility study. Discuss the results and conclusions of the study regarding: Expected (quantitative) contribution to the soc iet al issue identified in the call for proposals. F easibility  of the innovation. Economic feasibility. What does this mean for  P hase 2?  Describe in  a few sentences  what the follow-up ( P hase 2) will look like and what the possible points of attention are (technical, economic, organisational). Implementation of the  project ( 1 -2  pag e s ) Describe  in broad term, what you have done  in  P hase 1. Pay attention to the following aspects: The type of activities (desk research, field research, lab research, etc.) T he project organisation and the division of tasks (including any partners and third parties involved) so that it is clear  who did what . A ny new parties in  P hase 1: why  did you involve them  and what was their role? Indicate whether the questions asked at the start of the project have been adequately answered. Explain any deviations from the original questions. Substantive findings (3–5 pages)  Describe the findings and conclusions for each topic below. 4.1 Contribution to the soci eta l issue (impact) Indicate – as quantitatively as possible – how your innovation contributes to solving the soci et al issue identified in the SBIR call. Describe how this insight was developed through this feasibility study. Discuss the answers to the feasibility questions. 4.2  F easibility  of the innovation Describe how the insight into the  ( technical )  risks  have  been further developed as a result of this project. Indicate whether you have encountered any bottlenecks in the areas of regulation, standardisation, certification, property protection and the like, and how you intend to resolve these bottlenecks. Justify whether the feasibility of a further research and development process ( P hase 2) has been sufficiently demonstrated. Discuss the answers to the feasibility questions. [Note. A picture is worth a thousand words] 4.3 Economic feasibility Describe how the understanding of economic feasibility (e.g. cost price, market size, suppliers , buyers  and demand) has been further developed as a result of this project. Justify whether the economic feasibility of a further research and development process ( P hase 2) has been sufficiently demonstrated. Discuss the answers to the feasibility questions. 4.4 Context Describe any learnings on the local context that may influence the result of your innovation. D iscuss the answers to the feasibility questions. 4. 5   Ge nder Describe  any  new insights in  how  you can  involve women in  all  stages  of   your innovati on.  Discuss the answers to the feasibility questions. Conclusi on and  follow-up  ( 1- 2  pag e s ) Describe whether a follow-up in  P hase 2 is feasible based on the results  mentioned in chapter 4 . 5.1  Ph ase 2 If the conclusion is “feasible”, outline  briefly  what the follow-up in  P hase 2 will look like: Describe the  ( technical )  risks and uncertainties involved in realising the intended innovation (or other alternatives investigated). Provide a general indication of what research and/or development still needs to be carried out after this feasibility study and what you estimate to be the (technical) risks and novelty aspects involved. Describe the economic risks and uncertainties you foresee  for the innovation , such as the relationship between expected returns and the investment required, the conditions for this investment, applicable regulations and competing products and services. Describe the organisational risks and uncertainties you foresee. Consider, for example, the expertise required, division of tasks, knowledge exchange, method of cooperation, and rights of  use of results.  Also address  context related risks.  Describe any missing expertise and how you intend to fill this gap. Describe how you intend to involve women in  your innovation , both as partners and as users and clients . Explain  h ow the Netherlands  will  benefit from your learnings .   5.2  After  P hase 2 Finally,  provide  a brief preview  of  the steps after  P hase 2 . Who  will be  your first client or launch custo mer ;  who  are the intended end users  and paying clients ;   and how will you incorporate their wishes into  P hase 2? Budget  (1-2  pag e s ) Provide a brief explanation of the actual figures compared to the budget and complete the table below. Total  price  in euros b udgeted Total  hours   budgeted Total  price  in euros realisati on Total  hours  realisati on  (estimated) Labour costs Materials Machines  and equipment Other costs , specif y   Costs of labour  partner 1   Costs of labour partner 2 Etc. Third-party costs   Total exclusive of VAT VAT*  Total including of VAT Note .  We use  this information for monitoring  purposes  to gain an impression whether the maximum budgets for this challenge were appropriate.  You do not need to  stay within  the original budget.

=== Document: 2026 dm health def ===
Call SBIR1 in Developing Markets 
Innovations for Women’s Health in Africa  
Benin, Ethiopia, Kenya, Mozambique , Nigeria, Uganda and South-Africa (to be confirmed)  
Theme 1: Improved availability and quality of healthcare services for women  
Theme 2: Diagnostic solutions, medical assist ive devices, and clinical practices  that advance women’s health outcomes 
Theme 3: Self-care and home-based medical products designed for women’s health  
  
Opening: 20 March 2026 
Closing date Expressions of Interest: 20 April 2026 13:00 CEST 
Budget: 3,9 million euros  
 
1
 The abbreviation SBIR stands for Sustainable Business Innovation Research and is inspired by the American Small Business Innovation 
Research program. The Dutch SBIR in Developing Markets programme is tailored to smaller companies but is open to all organisations 
that are committed to addressing societal challenges. SBIR is a ‘precommercial procurement’; contracts for research and development 
services fall outside of international public procurement agreements alike the WTO Government Procurement Agreement . The 
procurement of R&D remains governed by the Treaty principles of transparency, equal treatment, and non -discrimination .... 

 
 
 
 
 
 
1. Introduction of the SBIR in Developing Markets call 
Are you an innovative entrepreneur motivated to make impact? Do you have ideas that not only 
tackle a societal challenge but also create a business case? If so, we are looking for you. Join our 
competition, where we seek innovative solutions to address some pressing societal challenges. This 
competition offers an opportunity to start an innovation trajectory for research and development  
resulting in a validated prototype, collaborations with entrepreneurs and impactful solutions that 
may lead to viable business models. 
 
We are looking for innovations that support and improve health systems, by addressing women’s 
health gaps, strengthening primary care and referral systems. Offering effective and practical clinical 
tools, assistive devices, supplies, and efficient clinical practices that enable healthcare professionals 
to diagnose, monitor, and manage women’s health conditions more accurately and safely. Eligible 
innovations may include innovative assistive devices, adapted assistive tools, or validated clinical 
workflows and decision-support methods suitable for primary and community healthcare settings.  
 
We invite you to be part of the solution. We are seeking your innovative ideas to tackle these gaps to 
strengthen existing structures or create new pathways. If you have a smart, forward-thinking solution 
that may turn women’s health into a business, we want to hear from you. Enter the SBIR competition 
in which we support several selected innovations that matter. Our country focus2: 
• Benin 
• Ethiopia 
• Kenya 
• Mozambique 
• Nigeria 
• Uganda 
• (South-Africa – to be confirmed) 
 
We expect that both the African and the Netherlands economy will benefit from the developed 
innovations as laid out in the policy on Trade and Economy of the Netherlands Ministry of Foreign 
Affairs as set out in the policy letter of 2025. 
 
1.1. SBIR DM offer  
• Access to seed funding and resources to bring your idea to life; 
• Guidance to elevate your innovation during a 2,5-year innovation track; 
• The opportunity to expose your solution into our networks and the SBIR community. 
 
1.2. SBIR DM participation 
Participants are Dutch (or EU based) entrepreneurs and entrepreneurial organizations from various 
sectors who are committed to address societal challenges and are eager to collaborate with (African) 
partners to make a meaningful difference. We encourage especially female entrepreneurs to 
participate in this challenge. Collaborations are encouraged in the form of subcontracted services. 
 
1.3. SBIR DM key elements   
• Adapt existing designs, products and services to the selected African country’s reality; 
• Design concepts that can be developed locally into concrete products;  
• Redesign and improve existing structures, by adding modern technology; 
 
2 These countries are appointed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs because of their focus on the policy thematic areas of Trade and Health. 
 
 
3 
 
• Balance economic impact and social impact 
o generate business, increase economic capacities, and deliver cost-saving solutions 
o address capacity and efficiency challenges; 
• Lay the foundations for scale to reach both social impact and economic value; 
• Lay the foundations for a business model focused on long-term sustainability and self-reliance;  
• Leverage knowledge and expertise through collaborations with African entrepreneurs; 
• Create both impact in African countries and learning value for the Netherlands; 
• Committed to staying involved for longer than the duration of the SBIR challenge. 
 
2. Focus of this SBIR DM call 
In general, women experience disadvantages  in medical treatment. Diagnostics and treatment of 
diseases are mostly developed for male bodies, resulting in delayed diagnoses for women. Or, for 
diseases specific for women, nothing is available at all, or in low supply. Women in Africa face high 
risks related to maternal health, reproductive conditions, cervical and breast cancer, anaemia, and 
infectious diseases, often combined with late diagnosis and limited access to care. Access to 
healthcare services may be challenging; women are remote from health care and city hospitals or 
lack time or money to stay away from home for a longer time. Or because they are physically not 
able to travel. Getting the right healthcare may also be challenging because of certain taboos on 
specific ailments, mental health issues or because a lot of treatments are aligned with men. Cultural 
norms, financial dependence, distance to facilities, and lack of female-friendly services prevent many 
women from seeking timely care, such as consultations, treatment and follow-up. However, a 
woman’s health strongly influences child health, nutrition, education, and overall family wellbeing. 
Improving women’s health therefore has a multiplier effect across communities. Gender-responsive 
healthcare ensures women receive appropriate, respectful, and effective treatment tailored to their 
biological and social realities. 
This SBIR call seeks innovative solutions for patients and medical practitioners to benefit women's 
health in a business-oriented way. Health issues are often seen as public sector and social problems 
and not so much as market opportunities. Also in low-income environments, it is hard to price 
products or services at levels that ensure profitability without excluding those who need them most. 
The end-user is often not the one who pays (government, NGO, employer, insurer). This complicates 
revenue models and customer acquisition strategies. Business cases often rely on complex B2G or 
B2B2C models rather than direct consumer sales. However, there is need for business -oriented 
solutions. Turning women’s health challenges in Africa into a business case often requires blended 
finance, innovative pricing, ecosystem partnerships, and innovative patient capital. This SBIR 
competition will support your innovation trajectory to map which women’s health segments are 
more business-viable and reframe these challenges during the innovation trajectory into a business 
model and investor-ready narrative.  
Technologies or types of solutions excluded from this competition: 
• Stand-alone applications, such as digital tools and data systems. These solutions are welcome 
under the conditions that they must fit in local settings where internet is not always reliable or 
be supportive instead of leading. The medical system should be capable to embed and follow-up 
on the results of the applications.  
• App-led AI tools. These solutions are welcome under the conditions that AI is supportive through 
or integrated features in decision support, risk stratification, or remote monitoring tools, and 
 
 
4 
 
embedded in physical products. This implies providing support in safe self-care and timely 
escalation without increasing complexity or dependence on connectivity.  
• Pharmaceutical products and medicine.  
• Technologies that require high up-front investments. 
• Solutions that will not easily integrate in African settings. 
• Technologies that will exacerbate health inequalities (including digital exclusion or data 
inequalities)  
• Solutions that are or will not be co-designed with women. 
• Solutions that do not impact the primary health systems. 
The Netherlands Ministry of Foreign Affairs invites applicants to submit proposals for one of the 
following three themes. The themes inevitably have some overlap, they differ however in 
perspective: accessibility for the patient, enabling health care professionals and alternative self-care 
solutions. Within each theme the applicant has the freedom to further specify the challenge. 
Theme 1: Improved availability and quality of healthcare services for women  
Theme 1 refers to expanding women’s access to timely, affordable, and appropriate healthcare while 
improving the safety, effectiveness, and patient experience of those services. In the African context, 
this means bringing services closer to women—especially in underserved areas—while ensuring care 
is gender-responsive, well-equipped, and delivered by trained health professionals. Enhanced 
availability focuses on reducing physical, financial, and social barriers that prevent women from 
seeking care, such as long distances to facilities, shortages of skilled staff, or high out-of-pocket costs. 
Improved quality emphasizes better diagnostics, maternity care, continuity of care, and reliable 
medical supplies, leading to earlier detection, safer treatment, and better health outcomes across a 
woman’s life course. For small and remote clinics, the prevention of infections in maternity and 
gynaecology wards also applies. We seek innovations that develop and validate new medical 
technologies or clinically validated diagnostic or treatment approaches that enable women to detect, 
monitor, or manage health conditions at home, in pharmacies, or in community settings before 
hospital care becomes necessary. Appropriate healthcare offers diagnostics and treatments adapted 
to the woman’s body and physiology. 
We are looking for innovative medical supplies—such as portable diagnostic tools, self-testing kits, 
long-acting treatments, and wearable or point-of-care devices—that enables early detection and 
management of female conditions before they become severe. This prevents complications that 
would not be addressed at all or otherwise require hospital admission. For many women, hospitals 
are far away, costly, and/or difficult to reach due to transport, caregiving responsibilities, or cultural 
constraints. Women are more likely to seek care when it is discrete, culturally appropriate, and 
provided within their communities. 
By integrating locally sourced materials or locally manufactured components, these products reduce 
costs, improve availability, simplify maintenance, and increase adoption by patients. Quality should 
be maintained; products should be clinically reliable, culturally appropriate, and usable. 
Potential solutions could entail:  
 
 
5 
 
• Introduction of portable or point-of-care diagnostics such as rapid tests for anaemia, infections, 
chronic conditions and pregnancy at lower-level health facilities improving the accuracy and 
speed of care for women.  
• Mobile health units that provide cervical cancer screening, breast exams, prenatal checkups, and 
HIV services in remote or informal settlements where permanent facilities are limited. 
• Ultrasound handhelds. 
• Low-literacy self-testing kits for women’s health conditions. 
• Digitally assisted interpretation of simple diagnostic tests. 
 
Theme 2: Diagnostic solutions, medical assistive devices, and clinical practices that advance 
women’s health outcomes   
Theme 2 refers to tools and approaches that enable healthcare professionals to detect, monitor, and 
treat women’s health conditions more accurately, earlier, and more safely—particularly in low-
resource African settings. These solutions improve clinical decision-making, reduce complications, 
and enhance the quality of care across reproductive, maternal, and non-communicable diseases 
affecting women. They also offer diagnostics and treatments adapted to the woman’s body and 
physiology. Stronger health systems addressing women’s health gaps strengthens primary care, 
referral systems, and data quality—benefiting all areas of medical support. Improved clinical 
outcomes on topics such as better diagnostics, appropriate medical assistive devices, and targeted 
care pathways help medical practitioners diagnose earlier, treat more effectively, and reduce 
preventable complications. Preventive and early-care approaches lower emergency cases, maternal 
mortality, and long-term complications, easing pressure on overstretched health systems. Better 
tools and training, such as devices and workflows designed with women’s health in mind, improve 
efficiency, accuracy, and confidence among healthcare workers.   
We are looking for innovations equipping medical staff with appropriate diagnostic and examination 
tools, purpose-designed medical assistive devices, and evidence -based clinical practices tailored to 
women’s biological and social health needs. In Africa, this often involves portable, affordable, and 
easy-to-use technologies combined with task-shifting, simplified protocols, and continuous training, 
allowing high-quality care to be delivered at primary and community levels rather than only in 
hospitals. 
By integrating locally sourced materials or locally manufactured components, these products reduce 
costs, improve availability, simplify maintenance, and increase adoption by healthcare providers. 
Tailored devices also address gaps where standard imported equipment is unsuitable for women’s 
anatomy, privacy needs, or care pathways. Quality should be maintained; products should be 
clinically reliable, culturally appropriate, and usable. 
Potential solutions could entail:  
• Improved delivery beds, vacuum extractors, manual vacuum aspiration kits, and safe blood 
transfusion equipment supporting safer childbirth and emergency obstetric care. 
• Solar-powered foetal heart rate monitors and blood pressure devices designed for maternal care 
ensuring reliable monitoring where electricity is unreliable. 
• Examination tools designed for privacy, comfort, and appropriate anatomy. 
 
 
6 
 
• Digital innovations that expand cognitive access, triage capacity, and referral efficiency—such as 
AI-supported symptom assessment tool s. 
• Specialised medical assistive devices designed for women . 
• Evidence based clinical protocols and workflows for common women’s conditions. 
• Structured referral algorithms for high-risk pregnancies 
• Tools enabling nurses, midwives, or community providers to safely perform assessments 
normally done by physicians. 
• Locally manufacturable diagnostic kits and device components 
 
 
Theme 3: Self-care and home-based medical products designed for women’s health  
Theme 3 refers to innovations that strengthen self-care and home-based women’s health by 
products that are specifically adapted to women’s biological needs, cultural contexts, and the 
practical realities of African healthcare settings and the distance for women to make use of it. 
Community-based or home-use medical supplies bring care closer, reduce travel time, expenses, and 
lost income. These solutions are designed to be affordable, durable, and usable in low-resource 
environments, while strengthening local manufacturing capacity and supply chains.  
This theme emphasizes women -centred design combined with local production or assembly, 
ensuring medical health care products are appropriate for African contexts—such as limited 
electricity, high patient volumes, and constrained budgets. By integrating locally sourced materials or 
locally manufactured components, these products reduce costs, improve availability, simplify 
maintenance, and increase adoption by women.  
We are looking for innovations designed for privacy and ease of use to help overcome stigmas 
related to reproductive, maternal, or gynaecological health. Overall, innovative medical supplies for 
rural women transform healthcare from hospital-centred to prevention-focused, community-based 
care—saving time, reducing costs, improving outcomes, and making health systems more resilient. 
Innovations will bring new or significantly adapted home-use medical products or self-care health 
approaches enabling women to safely detect, monitor, or manage health conditions outside clinical 
facilities. Eligible innovations may include self-testing kits, home monitoring solutions, or validated 
self-care protocols designed for usability, privacy, and cultural appropriateness in low-resource 
settings. Access and quality must go hand in hand: innovations should not only be available locally 
but must also be clinically reliable, culturally appropriate, and usable by frontline nurses, pharmacies 
or community health workers. Products made from locally sourced materials - durable, low power, 
and repairable - support affordability, supply resilience, and trust among women users.   
Potential solutions could entail:    
• HIV self-test kits, family planning products, and pregnancy tests designed for privacy and ease of 
use help women manage their health without frequent facility visit. 
• Locally manufacturable orthopaedic aids and assistive technology products that support women 
to improve or maintain their daily quality of life by easing or compensating for an injury or 
disability. 
• Low-cost home tests for pregnancy complications 
• Home blood pressure monitoring systems adapted for pregnancy 
• Home-based therapeutic support kits (e.g., iron supplementation monitoring systems) 
• Digital or AI supported self-care apps 
 
 
7 
 
3. Conditions for applicants and their subcontractors  
3.1. Tenders can only be submitted by: 
• Applicants that are registered in the professional register or in the trade register in accordance 
with the regulations of the Member State (EU) where one is established.  
• Applicants and their subcontractors that comply with the other conditions mentioned in 
paragraph 11.1 of the SBIR in Developing Markets Guide for Businesses. 
 
Applicants for this SBIR DM declare that they will conduct their activities in line with the guide for 
Corporate Social Responsibility of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development 
(OECD): Responsible Business Conduct | RVO.nl. Applicants need to account for the risks associated 
with doing business internationally.  
4. Minimum requirements  
For entering this innovation competition there are 2 basic conditions that will apply. Applicants that 
don’t meet these conditions as listed below, will be excluded from this SBIR DM competition. 
4.1. Challenge, themes & countries 
The proposed solution fits within at least one of the themes of this challenge and will be developed 
in one of the listed countries. 
4.2. R&D services and innovation 
The services offered by the applicant have to be within the scope of the definition for R&D services, 
as mentioned in the SBIR DM Guide for businesses.  
The innovation can be hardware, software, a service or a new way of organising things. This also 
includes making existing products and services in another country suitable for the target country in 
an innovative way. Obviously, this still requires R&D and there is a reasonable chance that it is not 
technically or economically feasible.  
5. Essential elements in your EoI and bids 
5.1. Expression of interest 
In order to enter the SBIR DM competition, you need to register your idea or intended innovation 
with an “Expression of Interest (EoI)”. (See section 7) 
 
We expect you to provide us in the expression of interest with: 
➢ A description of the specific challenge that your innovation will tackle and the impact you aim to 
make. 
➢ An explanation of why R&D is needed. 
➢ An explanation why your company is capable of making the innovation a success. 
 
5.2. Deliverables Phase 1 and Phase 2 
In order to make a good assessment of your bid, it is important that you provide as with as much 
details as possible. Mention relevant topics and context information; also what you don’t know yet; 
and what you need to research. To understand the elements t hat are essential in your bid, we 
explain what needs to be achieved after Phase 1 and Phase 2. 
 
 
8 
 
At the end of Phase 1, projects are expected to have established the technical merit, feasibility, and 
commercial potential of the proposed innovation. Examples of exit points include:  
• Assumptions on the context validated and partners identified 
• Technical feasibility and R&D needed 
• Start of the business validation of market players and dynamics 
Call specific: 
• Health partners and stakeholders identified  
• Early clinical evidence generation plan for adoption (type of data available, type of surveying 
groups such as communities, health workers etc) 
• If applicable: EU medical device classification ( https://webgate.ec.europa.eu/udi-
helpdesk/en/other -relevant-information/medical-device-classification.html) 
Following successful completion of Phase 1, projects may be invited for further funding at Phase 2 to 
continue development, subject to budget availability. The expected outcome  of Phase 2 is a 
prototype, validated clinical workflow, or evidence-based clinical practice supported by a tangible 
tool or reproducible methodology, rather than general training or health service reform. 
It is expected that at the end of Phase 2, most of the following will also be achieved:  
• Increased engagement with end -users such as patients and health staff and validated 
assumptions on the realities within the innovation trajectory (criteria 1) 
• Early clinical evidence gathered to demonstrate safety, accuracy and acceptance. (criteria 2) 
• Tested prototype 
• Ideas for after Phase 2 (commercialisation) such as further product- market fit steps, 
investment readiness, scaling. 
• Evidence gathered towards regulatory approval, cost effectiveness and early clinical 
evidence. 
5.3. Phase 1 bid 
If you are invited for a Phase 1 bid, keep the deliverables of Phase 1 in mind. We expect you to 
provide us with a detailed description of the following elements:  
➢ An insight in your local network or a convincing plan to find (new) partners;  
➢ Insight in the structure of the ecosystem in which your innovation must land; 
➢ A short description of your innovation linked to the chosen country; 
➢ An explanation why R&D is needed and expected major risks; 
➢ Business case: first ideas. 
➢ First ideas on the roles women can play in the several stages of your innovation development. 
Our template for the project plan will guide you through these elements. 
 
5.4. Phase 2 bid 
With the deliverables of Phase 2 in mind we expect you to provide us in your Phase 2 offer with: 
➢ A clear description of your innovation and risk analysis. 
➢ A validation of how your innovation will fit in the setting.   
➢ An insight in first users and clients. 
➢ Evidence-based: an insight in your approach. 
 
 
9 
 
➢ Health economics: how will your innovation reduce operational costs. 
➢ Gender: concise description of the role women play in your action plan and project set-up based 
on the findings in Phase 1. As target group (end user as well as paying client) or as 
entrepreneur /developer etc.)  
Our template for the project plan and the business plan will guide you through these elements. 
 
5.5. Elements in your bid explained further 
5.5.1. Impact and context 
Your innovation makes impact by tackling a specific societal challenge. In the feasibility phase you 
specify which solution your innovation is going to deliver and how it will be adopted. Think of 
accessibility, affordability and acceptance. You are aware of the settings you work in such as 
legislative frameworks, resource availability (materials, financing, institutions), cultural, political and 
social realities and existing (informal) activities. You have an idea of the parties you need to work 
with, and you establish a network. During Phase 2 you have validated your contextual assumptions 
and have established collaborations that ensure your connection with the market. 
5.5.2. Innovation: Validation, R&D, TRL  and partners  
We qualify a product, technique or service an innovation if the product or service is new to the target 
country; it comprises a new technology; or a new organisational method. The innovation can be 
hardware, software, a service or a new way of organising things. This also includes making existing 
products and services in another country suitable for the target country in an innovative way. 
Obviously, this still requires R&D and there is a reasonable chance that it is not technically or 
economically feasible. (R&D is up to Technology Readiness Level 7 and includes first 0-series 
(preproduction series?); see also R&D definitions in the SBIR DM Guide for businesses.) 
Good partners in the country are essential for the success of your innovation. Products made from 
locally sourced materials—durable, low power, and repairable—may support affordability, supply 
resilience, and trust among users. 
5.5.3. Economic perspective and potential to expand 
For the innovation you are proposing, you identify and validate in Phase 1 the demand for the 
solution. You analyse the market dynamics in which your innovation must land. You use the lean 
canvas model3 for mapping. In Phase 2 you have the end-users in the picture and a potential first 
buyer. You can explain your business model and how you intend to make money out of your 
innovation. In case more needs to be done before commercialisation is possible, you prepare steps 
after phase 2 is finalised. The proposed solution can in the future be applied by (semi-) public 
organizations or will be widely accessible for private entities. 
5.5.4. Gender equality  
Gender equality and the empowerment of women is a cross-cutting goal. SBIR DM is about tackling a 
societal challenge and make a business case out of it. At least half of the people benefitting from this, 
is female. All entrepreneurs who aspire to receive an SBIR contract should therefore make sure that 
women are involved in various and relevant capacities. During the innovation trajectory, SBIR 
participants are requested to indicate if and how women are affected by and involved in the 
challenge addressed. This needs to be elaborated properly in the proposal. It is important that you 
 
3 https://leanstack.com/LeanCanvas.pdf  
 
 
10 
 
display creativity and out-of-the box thinking in involving women in case their involvement is not 
obvious. 
5.5.5. Health economics 
Health care facilities: most hospitals and clinics operate with limited budgets, especially public ones. 
Health innovations that can reduce operational costs – whether through technology, medical 
assistive devices or process improvements - while improving patient care are highly attractive from 
both a financial and operational perspective.  
Innovations that enable better patient outcomes (e.g., through earlier diagnosis, preventive care, or 
remote monitoring) can lead to reduced readmissions, fewer complications, and lower treatment 
costs. This not only improves hospital profitability but also frees up resources for other services. 
Furthermore, innovations that streamline workflows, reduce manual tasks, or provide real-time data 
to healthcare workers can reduce labour costs while boosting productivity. Hospitals can do more 
with the same or fewer staff, which is essential in resource-limited settings.  
Investors: investors are more likely to support innovations that can reduce costs for hospitals and/or 
patients, as these savings can directly translate into profit for hospitals, creating a strong business 
case. By making hospitals more efficient, investors can anticipate a steady demand for these 
innovations. You will be requested to map your efficiency gains (cost reductions, workforce 
implications and alignment with existing systems) to validate your social impact and financial viability 
after the R&D process 
5.5.6. Early clinical evidence   
Evidence-based health innovations are those that have been rigorously tested and validated through 
clinical trials, real-world data, or proven through reliable scientific research. These innovations are 
grounded in data and have a solid proof of efficacy and safety. Besides regulatory requirements, 
evidence-based innovations gain trust from healthcare professionals, governments, patients and 
investors on the efficiency and delivery of the product or service. Evidence helps healthcare 
providers and policymakers make informed decisions about where to allocate scarce resources. In 
many African countries, there are limited funds for health systems, so evidence-based innovations 
can demonstrate how they can deliver the best value for money. You will be requested to lay the 
foundations for evidence-based working in the SBIR innovation track with the right knowledge on 
board and method/approach during Phase 1 and clear outcomes in phase 2.  
 
6. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the theme of innovation  
This call falls under the policy on Trade and Economy of the Netherlands Ministry of Foreign Affairs 
as set out in the policy letter of 2025. More specifically, the Netherlands aims for market 
development in low- and middle-income countries by supporting key sectors and enabling trade 
across borders. This strengthens local economies, while also contributing to the Dutch earning 
capacity. A win-win objective grounded in mutual interests. A strong emphasis is placed on working 
together with Dutch businesses and experts in order to contribute to solving local challenges using 
innovative and locally rooted business solutions. Primarily, the Netherlands focuses on three key 
areas in which Dutch experts and businesses excel internationally, namely: health, water 
management and food security. Therefore, this call is well placed to serve Dutch policy goals towards 
Trade and Economy from an innovative perspective. 
 
 
11 
 
7. Procedure 
The Netherlands Enterprise Agency (RVO) is part of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and implements 
SBIR DM challenges for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. SBIR DM is an open competition for all market 
players capable of developing innovative (technological) solutions to societal issues. SBIR DM consists 
of two phases.  
 
Steps in this SBIR DM challenge  
1. Interested parties must submit a brief description, an Expression of Interest (EoI), via the online 
form. Please note: a maximum of 2 per applicant. 
2. Experts from RVO will assess which of the maximum 40 EoIs best align with the call’s objectives 
and appear to have the best prospects.  
3. Applicants of these promising EoIs will receive a bid request for Phase 1. A maximum of one bid 
request per bidder.   
4. A committee of external experts will then advise RVO on which Phase 1 bids best meet the 
criteria. 
5. The applicants of these proposals will be awarded a Phase 1 contract. 
6. Parties that have completed the Phase 1 feasibility study may be invited to submit a bid for Phase 
2 (development and testing of the innovation).  
7. The aforementioned committee will advise RVO on which Phase 2 bids best meet the criteria.  
8. Subsequently, the entrepreneurs with the highest scoring bids for Phase 2 will be awarded a 
contract to (further) develop and test their innovation. 
 
Note. SBIR DM covers only research and development costs. Market launch is not part of SBIR DM. 
8. Budget 
Het Ministry of Foreign Affairs provides for Phase 1 of this SBIR DM challenge a budget of € 400,000 
(including of VAT) per theme. The maximum price per Phase 1 project is € 50,000 (including VAT).  
For Phase 2 a budget of € 900,000 (including VAT) is available plus any remaining budget from Phase 
1. The maximum price per Phase 2 project is € 200,000 (including VAT). Only contractors that have 
completed Phase 1 successfully will receive a Bid request for Phase 2.  
The budget is divided over the three themes as follows:  
 Phase 1 Phase 2 
Theme 1  400,000 euros 900,000 euros 
Theme 2  400,000 euros 900,000 euros 
Theme 3  400,000 euros 900,000 euros 
Total 1,200,000 euros 2,700,000 euros 
 
The number of awarded bids for the various phases depends on the price and quality of the highest-
rated bid for each phase. If one of the themes does not have a sufficient number of high-quality bids, 
 
 
12 
 
part of this budget may be allocated to bids within another theme. Any remaining budget from Phase 
1 may be used in Phase 2. 
VAT 
When doing activities that concern low and middle income countries (DAC-ODA list) and the results 
benefit these countries, a 0% VAT rate may apply for organisations that are classified as 
entrepreneurs for VAT purposes and are established in the Netherland s. 
For Phase 1 this 0% VAT may not always apply.  
 
9. Assessment of the bids 
The assessment will be carried out in accordance with the procedure described in the SBIR DM Guide 
for businesses (March 2026 version) and on the basis of the assessment criteria set out below. Only 
project proposals that meet the minimum requirements (see 3. Minimum requirements) will be 
considered for further assessment.  
In the assessment (maximum total of 100 points), the maximum number of points that may be 
awarded per criterion is as follows: 
1. Impact: 40 
2. Innovation and expertise: 30 
3. Economic perspective: 30 
Please note: Only projects that score 60% or more of the maximum number of points across all three 
criteria will be included in the ranking and considered for a contract. 
 
1. Impact: to what extent does the innovation contribute to the challenge, and is this realistic? 
The greater the potential contribution of the innovation to the challenge outlined in the call, the 
higher the proposal scores. It has been made plausible that the solution is indeed a solution to 
the problem outlined and is applicable in the context. The applicant demonstrates awareness of 
developments and circumstances in the country for which the innovation is intended and has 
incorporated this knowledge into the proposal. This includes awareness on how women are 
affected by and involved in the challenge addressed. 
A proposal also scores higher the greater the potential reach of the proposed innovative solution. 
Factors contributing to a wide reach include: the solution meets the user’s needs and is (socially) 
acceptable. In this regard, the expected contribution must be well-founded, both in terms of 
quality and, where possible, in quantitative terms. 
If the innovation impacts an existing supply chain, it is important that evidence is given into this 
chain and that the effect of the innovation is indicated. 
 
 
 
13 
 
2. Innovation and expertise 
A bid scores higher if it offers a more innovative solution and it is made plausible that the 
approach will result in a concrete solution. The solution must include essential (technical) 
elements that align with the expertise of the applicant and their partners.  
The project plan for Phase 1 makes plausible that the applicant has a clear overview of the 
innovation process and presents a plan in which the relevant feasibility questions are addressed, 
the (technical) substantive risks are identified, and the necessary expertise and creativity to 
devise solutions are available or will be mobilised. 
In the project plan for Phase 2, the research and development challenges must be substantiated 
and elaborated in a plan that inspires confidence in the proposed approach. The plan contains 
concrete milestones and makes plausible how (technical) substantive risks will be mitigated in a 
timely manner within the duration of the project. 
 
3. Economic perspective 
A higher score is awarded here to the extent that it is made plausible that the innovation can 
succeed in the market and that (future) clients will actually use and purchase the innovation 
developed.  
The project plan for Phase 1 focuses on the business model. It clearly explains why the innovation 
is of interest to clients and the added value it provides. In Phase 2, the business model is further 
developed into a business plan. The intended business mo del, the involvement of the right 
parties to bring the innovation to market, and a clear path to commercialisation are key factors 
here. 
 
10. Online information meeting 
For the expression of interest RVO organises an online meeting where we will explain the challenge. 
Please register as soon as possible with the online registration form. Once you have registered, you 
will receive a link to the meeting.  
 
11. Information and contact 
Questions regarding this SBIR DM challenge should be addressed to sbir@rvo.nl until max 10 days before the deadline. All 
information on the Challenge and the accompanying documents can be found on both TenderNed 
and SBIR in Developing Markets – Innovation programme | RVO.nl  
 
 
14 
 
12. Planning 
 
What When 
Publication of the challenge 20 March 2026 
Information meeting (online) 
31 March 2026 at 15.30 
CEST 
Deadline Expression of Interest 20 April 2026 13:00 CEST 
Feedback Expression of Interest and possible Bid request Phase 1 27 April 2026 
Information meeting on process, bid and documents for Phase 1 7 May 2026 
Deadline phase 1 Bids  
Note. You can start the phase 1 project from the date you submitted 
the phase 1 bid to RVO. Please note that these costs will be borne by 
you if you are not awarded a contract.  
26 May 2026 at 13.00 
CEST  
Assessment committee meeting End of June  
Announcement of results 
Note. You can start the Phase 1 project.  End of June 
Contracting phase 1 Beginning of July 2026 
Kick-off meeting phase 1 End of August 2026 
Online progress meetings 
October and November 
2026 
Deadline feasibility report 7 January 2027 
Bid requests Phase 2 sent 14 January 2027 
Deadline Bids Phase 2 
Note. You can start the phase 2 project from the date you submitted 
the phase 2 bid to RVO. Please note that these costs will be borne by 
you if you are not awarded a contract.  Mid-February 2027 
Assessment committee meeting March 2027 
Announcement of results 
Note. You can start the Phase 2 project. End of March 
Contracting Phase 2 End of March 2027 
Online progress meetings 
Upon request, at least 
twice during phase 2 
Deadline final report Phase 2 and demonstration 15 April 2029 
 
RVO reserves the right to adjust the attached planning if necessary. This will be communicated to (potential) contractors in a 
timely manner.