=== Document: 202602143 annex 8 statement pursuant to eu regulation ===
Annex 8 
Statement on sanctions 
Russia 
 
 
IUC EZK/LVVN 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Status: Version 1.0 
Reference: IUC 202602143  
 
 
Declaration 
By submitting an offer for this tender, the Tenderer declares in good faith that there is no Russian 
involvement in the performance of this Agreement, which exceeds the thresholds of Article 5 
duodecies of EU Regulation (EU) 833/2014 of 31 July 2014 concerning restrictive measures in 
response to Russia's actions destabilising the situation in Ukraine, as amended by Regulation 
2022/576 of 8 April 2022. 
 
The Tenderer declares in particular that: 
a) The Tenderer (and, where applicable, the companies that are part of the tendering 
consortium) is/are not a person, persons or legal entities of Russian nationality and these 
persons or entities (natural persons, companies, entities or bodies) are not established in 
Russia; 
b) The Tenderer (and, if applicable, the companies that are part of the tendering consortium) 
is/are not legal entities (established in Russia or another country) that are more than 50% 
owned by a Russian party as referred to in (a) above;  
c) neither the Tenderer nor the company representing the Tenderer is a legal entity 
established in Russia or another country that acts in the interest of or on the instructions of 
a Russian party as referred to in a) and b); 
d) no subcontractors, suppliers or companies are participating whose capacity is being called 
upon by the Tenderer and which have a share of more than 10% of the contract value, 
whereby a situation as referred to under a) to c) arises. 
Finally, the Tenderer formally declares that this information has been provided accurately and 
truthfully and that the Tenderer is fully aware of the consequences of making a false statement. 
The Tenderer also declares that it is able to provide all necessary supporting documents upon 
request and without delay.

=== Document: 202602143 annex 6 list of reference contracts ===
A nnex   2 :  List of  R eference  C ontracts   Tender : Expert support Cost effectiveness and business case analyses for future  offshore  wind farm sites Tenderer : [name of Tenderer] The contracting authority has set the following key competences that correspond to experience in essential aspects of the contract   Provision of personnel as  Experts in  Cost effectiveness and business case analyses for offshore wind farm sites , in which the  S ervices  contains all of the following  Core Competences : The Tenderer has experience with conducting LCOE studies for Offshore Wind Farms, including cost estimations (DEVEX, CAPEX, OPEX, DECEX), revenue estimations (energy market, PPAs,  CfDs ), and sensitivity and risk analysis ; The Tenderer has experience with Offshore Wind Farm Technology (WTGs and other hardware) & Energy Yield Modelling (specifically for projects in the North Sea) , including  WTG performance and availability modeling ,  Wind resource and Wake modeling ; The Tenderer has experience with  Offshore Wind Farm Design & Spatial Optimization, including Infield cable design and routing, Spatial constraints and zoning ;   The Tenderer has experience with  System Integration,   Grid & Infrastructure Optimization ,  including  Grid connection constraints, Export cable usage optimization,  Curtailment and  conditional transmission rights   (e.g. partly non-firm)  modeling, Energy conversion (electrons to molecules) or storage (batteries or similar)  Core   Competence s   For each  Core Competence  fill in: □  Core  Competence  number  (1, 2 ,   3  and 4 ) □  Description of reference  assignment :   client, project  (provide details about size, geographic location),   activities performed / role the tenderer had , results delivere d □  Contract  Value  in EUR □ Commencement and end date of contract □  If applicable: In the event this contract was a collaboration with another organisation, describe the division of the roles within this collaboration □ Contact data of referee: company name,  contact person,  telephone/   email No.  1 Core  Compe-tence (s): (1/2/3/4) Project  name :  C lient :  Location:  Scope:  Description: Role: C ontract Start  and End Date:  Contract Value:  Contact person / referee  name & contact details : No.  2 Core  Compe-tence (s): (1/2/3/4) Project  name :  C lient :  Location:  Scope:  Description: Role: C ontract Start  and End Date:  Contract Value:  Contact person / referee  name & contact details: No.  3 Core  Compe-tence (s): (1/2/3/4) Project  name :  C lient :  Location:  Scope:  Description: Role: C ontract Start  and End Date:  Contract Value:  Contact person / referee  name & contact details: No.  4 Core  Compe-tence (s): (1/2/3/4) Project  name :  C lient :  Location:  Scope:  Description: Role: C ontract Start  and End Date:  Contract Value:  Contact person / referee  name & contact details: No.  5 Core  Compe-tence (s): (1/2/3/4) Project  name :  C lient :  Location:  Scope:  Description: Role: C ontract Start  and End Date:  Contract Value:  Contact person / referee  name & contact details: No.  6 Core  Compe-tence (s): (1/2/3/4) Project  name :  C lient :  Location:  Scope:  Description: Role: C ontract Start  and End Date:  Contract Value:  Contact person / referee  name & contact details: No.  7 Core  Compe-tence (s): (1/2/3/4) Project  name :  C lient :  Location:  Scope:  Description: Role: C ontract Start  and End Date:  Contract Value:  Contact person / referee  name & contact details: No.  8 Core  Compe-tence (s): (1/2/3/4) Project  name :  C lient :  Location:  Scope:  Description: Role: C ontract Start  and End Date:  Contract Value:  Contact person / referee  name & contact details: No.  9 Core  Compe-tence (s): (1/2/3/4) Project  name :  C lient :  Location:  Scope:  Description: Role: C ontract Start  and End Date:  Contract Value:  Contact person / referee  name & contact details: No.  10 Core  Compe-tence (s): (1/2/3/4) Project  name :  C lient :  Location:  Scope:  Description: Role: C ontract Start  and End Date:  Contract Value:  Contact person / referee  name & contact details: Tenderer declares that he has carried out at least one reference assignment  for each of the  Core Competences  listed above  that meets the following minimum requirements: The subject of the reference  contract   must be comparable to the  Core Competence  in question. The reference  contract   must have been executed or completed within the  t hree   years prior to the closing date for the submission of tenders. If the Tenderer uses an  contract   that is not yet fully complete, then only the completed results of the ongoing  contract   can be submitted for reference purposes: projected results cannot be taken into consideration. The total value of the reference  contracts   must be at least  EUR   2 00 ,000.-  (excl. VAT) . In case separate reference contracts are used to fulfil all  four  ( 4 ) key competences, the value of each  reference contract should be at least:  EUR  2 0,000,- .  There is room for a maximum of 10 reference contracts in the template. Th e  reference   contract   value must exclusively consist of the value of the aspects of the assignment that are equivalent to the services specified in this document. In case a series of separate yet significantly comparable assignments was carried out for the same client during the reference period, then the turnover of these separate assignments can be combined into a cumulative total.   In this case  the different assignments and contract values  shall be clearly described . Contracts including one or more subcontractors can only be used as reference contracts if the subcontractor(s) in question will be involved in the fulfilment of the Contract and if the Tenderer can and will make use of the knowledge and experience of the subcontractor(s) in question during the fulfilment of the Contract. If a single reference testifies to multiple competences that comply with the applicable requirements, then you can use the same reference for these different core competences.  If required, the Tendering Authority reserves the right to check the accuracy and completeness of the references and to contact one or more of the reference parties without the Tenderer’s involvement or permission.

=== Document: 202602143 annex 5 complaints procedure ===
Annex 5 Complaints procedure 
 
 
Complaint 
A complaint is a written notification by an enterprise with an interest in the tender1 to the contracting authority, 
in which the entrepreneur specifies with reasons on what points he disagrees with the tender or any part of it. 
 
The complaint must at least contain:  
• The date. 
• The name and address of the entrepreneur. 
• The name of the tender. 
• The content of the complaint in which the complaint is clearly defined as such. 
• How the complaint could be resolved according to the entrepreneur. 
 
Not every question by an entrepreneur in a tendering procedure needs to lead to a complaint and not every 
complaint requires going through the entire complaints procedure. The following principle applies: “first ask, 
then complain”. Questions and requests relating to clarification of aspects of the tendering procedure must be 
submitted by the entrepreneur to the contracting authority in time, in accordance with the provisions in the 
tender document. This also applies to a request to make a non-essential change in the tender documents. If the 
entrepreneur continues to disagree with the response from the contracting authority, or if a response is not 
forthcoming, he may file a complaint with the contracting authority. The entrepreneur may also file a complaint  
if, according to the tender document, there is no (more) opportunity to ask questions.  
 
 
What can a complaint be about? 
Complaints must relate to aspects of the tender that fall within the scope of the Public Procurement Act 2012. 
Complaints may not question the tender policy of the contracting authority in general. 
 
The entrepreneur may file a complaint about all types of tendering procedures (regardless of the threshold 
value) concerning:  
- the phase before the deadline for submission of an expression of interest/a tender in an ongoing 
tendering procedure;  
- the selection or award decision of an ongoing tendering procedure;  
- the situation in which the contracting authority has not put out a contract to tender when, according to 
the entrepreneur, it should have done so. 
 
 
Who can file a complaint? 
A complaint may be filed by entrepreneurs with an interest in being awarded a specific tender. This 
includes: 
- interested entrepreneurs  
- (potential) tenderers and candidates 
- industry associations and industry-related advice centres of entrepreneurs. 
 
 
1 Tender also refers to the ‘request for proposal’ procedure. 
 
 
Complaints may not be filed anonymously. However, an industry association may file a complaint in its private 
capacity if this complaint relates to a specific tender which concerns one or more entrepreneurs in the industry. 
 
What is the final date for submitting a complaint? 
The entrepreneur is advised to file the complaint at the earliest possible opportunity. If the complaint is 
submitted very late or too late, the contracting authority will not be able to resolve the complaint during the 
ongoing procedure. 
 
Submitting a complaint does not stop a tender procedure. The contracting authority may or may not decide to 
suspend the procedure. 
 
 
Where should you submit your complaint?  
Complaints should be submitted in writing to: 
KlachtenmeldpuntAanbesteden@minezk.nl  
 
The complaint will be dealt with by one or more persons who have not been involved with the tender to which 
the complaint relates. 
 
 
The complaints handling procedure 
a. Complaints submitted to the ‘Klachtenmeldpunt’ (‘complaints office’) will be handled on the basis of this 
complaint procedure and not on the basis of the Awb (General Administrative Law Act). 
b. After receiving the complaint in the manner described above, the complaints office immediately confirms it 
has received the complaint. 
c. The complaints office subsequently investigates if the complaint is legitimate, if necessary on the basis of 
information provided by the entrepreneur and the contracting authority. The complaints office starts this 
investigation as soon as possible, proceeds expeditiously, while taking account of the schedule of the 
tender procedure. 
d. If, after the complaint has been investigated by the complaints office, the contracting authority concludes 
that the complaint is (partially) legitimate and the contracting authority takes corrective and/or preventive 
measures, the contracting authority will inform the entrepreneur of this in writing as soon as possible. The 
other (potential) tenderers and candidates are also informed. Depending on the stage of the tender 
procedure, the contact person of the tender of the contracting authority may communicate the measures to 
the persons involved in the tender at the same time as the person who made the complaint is informed. 
This is to prevent giving undue preference to any of the parties.  
e. If, after the investigation, the contracting authority concludes that the complaint is not legitimate, it will 
reject the complaint giving its reasons for doing so and inform the entrepreneur. 
f. At the request of the entrepreneur or the contracting authority, the complaints office may propose, before 
the contracting authority makes a decision, to have the complaint submitted to the Committee of 
Tendering Experts (article 4.27 Aanbestedingswet (Public Procurement Act) 2012). 
g. When the contracting authority has informed the entrepreneur of the decision it has reached, or if the 
contracting authority fails to respond to the complaint within a reasonable term, the complainant may 
submit the complaint to the Committee of Tendering Experts (except if the complaint relates to a selection 
or award decision) or to the competent judge in summary proceedings.

=== Document: 202602143 annex 4 arvodi 2025 ===
AVT/BZ-250415-013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GENERAL GOVERNMENT TERMS AND CONDITIONS  
FOR  
PUBLIC SERVICE CONTRACTS 2025 
(ARVODI-2025) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adopted by order of 
the Prime Minister, 
Minister of General Affairs, 
of 17 March 2025, no. 4446866 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Central government 
AVT/BZ-250415-013 
 
Article 1 Definitions 
 
The following terms are written with initial capitals in these general terms and conditions and 
are defined as follows: 
1.1 Schedule: an annexe to the Contract that forms part of it. 
1.2 Services: the work that the Contractor is to perform for the Contracting Authority 
under the Contract. 
1.3 Additional Work: work that is not included in the Contract that results in additional 
costs. 
1.4 Contracting Authority: the State of the Netherlands or any other contracting authority 
using these general terms and conditions.  
1.5 Contractor: the counterparty of the Contracting Authority.  
1.6 Contract: the agreement between the Contracting Authority and the Contractor of 
which the Terms and Conditions form part. 
1.7 Party: the Contracting Authority or the Contractor, depending on the context.  
1.8 Parties: the Contracting Authority and the Contractor. 
1.9 Staff: the persons, including subordinates and subcontractors, engaged by the Parties 
in performing the Services. 
1.10 Terms and Conditions: these general terms and conditions.  
1.11 Working Day: calendar day, with the exception of Saturdays and Sundays and official 
public holidays within the meaning of section 3, subsection 1 of the General Extension 
of Time Limits Act. 
 
Article 2 Application 
 
2.1 Amendments or additions to the Contract or derogations from the Terms and 
Conditions are binding only if they have been explicitly agreed in writing or by email 
between the Parties.  
2.2 In the event of inconsistency between the Dutch text of these Terms and Conditions 
and translations of them, the Dutch text will always prevail. 
 
Article 3 Requirements for the Services 
 
The Services to be performed must meet the requirements laid down in the Contract, must 
be suitable for the intended use as arising from the Contract, and must be performed 
competently.  
 
Article 4 Replacement of persons responsible for performing the Services 
 
4.1 The Contractor may temporarily or permanently replace a person who is responsible for 
performing the Services only by way of exception and with the prior consent of the 
Contracting Authority. The Contracting Authority may not withhold its consent without 
reasonable grounds and may attach conditions to its consent. The Contractor will not 
charge a higher fee for the replacement.  
4.2 If the Contracting Authority requests that a person who is responsible for performing the 
Services be replaced because it considers that this is necessary or desirable in the 
interests of the proper performance of the Services, the Contractor will replace this 
person as soon as possible unless that cannot be reasonably demanded of the 
Contractor. The Contractor will not charge a higher fee for the replacement. 
4.3 When replacing a person who is responsible for performing the Services, the Contractor 
AVT/BZ-250415-013 
 
will make available a person who possesses expertise, qualifications and experience at 
least equivalent to that of the person being replaced or who satisfies what has been 
agreed by the Parties in this regard. 
 
Article 5 Use of Contracting Authority’s property  
 
The Parties may agree that in performing the Services the Contractor is to be lent property 
belonging to the Contracting Authority. The Contracting Authority may attach conditions to 
the loan of this property. 
 
Article 6 Subcontracting 
 
6.1 The Contractor may engage or replace subcontractors for the performance of the 
Services only after it has obtained the Contracting Authority’s consent. The 
Contracting Authority will not withhold its consent without reasonable grounds. The 
Contracting Authority may attach conditions to its consent.  
6.2 If the Contracting Authority consents to the engagement or replacement of 
subcontractors the Contractor is and remains responsible and liable for the fulfilment 
of obligations arising from the Contract and obligations arising from tax and social 
insurance legislation. 
 
Article 7 Progress reports 
 
The Contractor will report to the Contracting Authority on the progress of the performance of 
the Services as often as and in the manner laid down in the Contract and, in addition, when 
asked to do so by the Contracting Authority. 
 
Article 8 Contacts 
 
8.1 The Parties will each designate a contact who will maintain day-to-day contact 
concerning the performance of the Services. The Parties will let each other know whom 
they have designated as a contact. 
8.2 The contacts may represent and bind the Parties only in so far as the performance of the 
Services is concerned. They are not authorised to amend the Contract. 
  
Article 9 Supervisory or steering committee 
 
The Parties may include agreements in the Contract on setting up a supervisory or steering 
committee. They may also lay down the duties, powers and composition of the supervisory 
or steering committee in the Contract.    
 
Article 10 Status of notifications, undertakings or agreements 
 
Notifications, undertakings or agreements that are relevant to the performance of the 
Contract are binding on the Parties only if they are given/made or confirmed in writing or by 
email by a person authorised to do so. ‘Email’ is understood to mean electronic 
communication: 
a. that can be consulted by the addressee, 
b. of which the authenticity is sufficiently safeguarded, and 
c. that enables the identity of the person giving the notification to be determined with 
AVT/BZ-250415-013 
 
sufficient certainty.  
In the case of agreements, it must also be possible to determine the moment when the 
agreement was made with sufficient certainty. 
 
Article 11 Confidentiality 
 
11.1 The Parties may not divulge anything that comes to their attention in the course of 
performing the Contract and that they know or may reasonably be assumed to know is 
confidential, unless they are obliged to do so by statute, a supervisory authority with a 
statutory task or a court ruling. If the Parties have agreed an alternative means of 
dispute resolution, a ruling of a body competent under article 32.1 to resolve a dispute 
will be equated with a court ruling for this purpose.  
11.2 The Parties will require their Staff to observe the duty of confidentiality included in 
paragraph 1. 
11.3 The Contractor will cooperate, at the request of the Contracting Authority, in enabling 
supervision, by or on behalf of the Contracting Authority, of the safekeeping and use of 
confidential information by the Contractor. 
11.4 The Contractor must not make the results of the Services available to third parties in 
any form or make any disclosures to third parties about them unless the Contracting 
Authority has given its express prior consent in writing or by email. The Contracting 
Authority may attach conditions to its consent. 
11.5 After the Contract has ended the Contractor must at the Contracting Authority’s first 
request make available as soon as possible to the Contracting Authority information 
that the Contractor has in its possession in connection with the performance of the 
Contract. This does not apply to information that the Contractor is required to have in 
its possession on the basis of legislation or generally accepted professional rules 
applicable to the Contractor. 
11.6 The Contracting Authority may stipulate in the Contract that breach of the duty of 
confidentiality will incur a penalty. The penalty is immediately payable. The 
Contracting Authority is entitled, in addition to the penalty, to compensation for the 
damage caused by the breach. 
 
Article 12 Processing of data 
 
12.1 Without prejudice to the provisions of this article, the Contractor will use the data 
provided by the Contracting Authority and the data generated on the basis thereof on 
the instructions of the Contracting Authority exclusively for the performance of the 
Services and in so far as this use is necessary and proportionate in relation to these 
Services, unless statutory rules provide otherwise. 
12.2 If the Contractor processes personal data for the Contracting Authority in the context of 
the performance of the Contract, the Contractor will comply with the applicable 
legislation on the protection of personal data. The Contractor will process personal 
data only for and on the basis of written instructions from the Contracting Authority, 
unless statutory rules provide otherwise. 
12.3 The Parties will regulate the processing of personal data by the Contractor for the 
Contracting Authority by means of an agreement. 
12.4 The parties will involve each other in a timely manner in putting forward a defence 
against claims from third parties in connection with the processing of personal data in 
the context of the performance of this Contract. 
 
AVT/BZ-250415-013 
 
Article 13 Security 
 
13.1 If the Services are performed at the premises of the Contracting Authority, the 
Contractor will instruct its Staff to comply with the Contracting Authority’s security 
procedures and internal rules. The Contracting Authority will inform the Contractor in a 
timely manner about these procedures and rules. 
13.2 At the Contracting Authority’s request, the Contractor will provide certificates of 
conduct in respect of the Contractor’s Staff no later than three Working Days before 
the performance of the Services at the premises of the Contracting Authority begins. 
 
13.3 The Contracting Authority may subject members of the Contractor’s Staff to security 
checks in accordance with the rules usually applied by the Contracting Authority. The 
Contractor will cooperate fully with these checks. On the basis of the results of a 
security check of this kind or in the event of the refusal of Staff of the Contractor to 
cooperate with a security check of this kind, the Contracting Authority may refuse to 
allow the person in question to be involved in the performance of the Contract. 
 
Article 14 Payment, Additional Work and reductions in the agreed work 
 
14.1 The Contracting Authority will pay the Contractor for all costs the Contractor actually 
incurs and all hours the Contractor actually works, unless the Parties have agreed a 
fixed price in the Contract. In the latter case the Contracting Authority will pay this 
fixed price. 
14.2 The Contracting Authority must be notified as soon as possible of Additional Work. 
Additional Work qualifies for payment only once the Contracting Authority has 
consented to this in writing or by email. Work not included in the Contract that the 
Contractor should have foreseen when the Contract was concluded is not deemed to 
be Additional Work.  
14.3 The Contractor cannot refuse Additional Work desired by the Contracting Authority 
amounting to up to 10% of the original contracted work. The Contractor will issue a 
quotation for the Additional Work in writing or by email, describing the amount of 
expected Additional Work, its duration and the costs involved. The provisions of the 
Contract including those on fees and any discounts are applicable to Additional Work to 
be performed by the Contractor unless the Parties have made other agreements in this 
regard.  
14.4 If a Party considers that there is a reduction in the agreed work, it will notify the other 
Party as soon as possible. The Parties will then jointly establish in writing or by email 
what work will not be performed by the Contractor and how this will affect the agreed 
payment.  
 
Article 15 Invoicing 
 
15.1 Invoicing by the Contractor will be electronic only. The Contractor will submit an e-
invoice in the manner prescribed in the Contract and in accordance with the 
specifications issued by the Contracting Authority so that the Contracting Authority can 
receive and process it electronically. 
15.2 An invoice that does not fulfil all the requirements or does not include all the relevant 
information does not need to be paid by the Contracting Authority. In that case the 
start of the payment period referred to in article 16 is not triggered. The Contracting 
Authority will ask the Contractor for a new invoice that does fulfil the requirements and 
AVT/BZ-250415-013 
 
include all relevant information. 
15.3 If it has been agreed that payment will be based on actual time worked, the Contractor 
will state the number and dates of calendar days or hours actually worked in the 
invoice. In so doing the Contractor will also give a brief description of the work 
performed and of any travel and accommodation expenses in so far as they may be 
charged under the Contract.  
15.4 The Contractor will invoice Additional Work separately. The invoice must comply with 
the provisions of the Contract. 
 
Article 16 Payment and invoice audits 
 
16.1 The Contracting Authority will pay the invoice within 30 calendar days of receiving the 
invoice, provided that the Services and the invoice comply with the Contract.  
16.2 If the Contracting Authority does not pay an invoice within 30 calendar days of receipt 
without valid reason, the Contracting Authority will automatically be liable to pay:  
a.  compensation as referred to in article 6:96, paragraph 4 of the Civil Code and 
b.  the statutory interest as referred to in article 6:119b, paragraph 1 of the Civil 
Code.  
The Contractor will submit separate invoices for the compensation and the interest 
payment. 
16.3 The Contracting Authority can have the accuracy and completeness of an invoice 
audited by an accountant as referred to in article 2:393, paragraph 1 of the Civil Code 
designated by the Contracting Authority. The Contractor will allow the accountant to 
inspect its books and documents and will supply the accountant with any data and 
information asked for by the accountant. This audit will be confidential and will not go 
beyond what is necessary to audit the invoice. The Contracting Authority will bear the 
costs of the audit unless the findings of the audit show that the invoice is not accurate 
or complete. In that case the Contractor will pay the costs of the auditor. 
16.4 The Contracting Authority may suspend payment of an invoice or a portion thereof 
about which the Parties have failed to reach agreement while the audit is being 
conducted. The Contracting Authority will only do so if the Contracting Authority has 
reasonable doubt concerning the accuracy or completeness of the invoice in question. 
16.5 If the Contracting Authority: 
a. does not pay an invoice within the payment period or   
b. does not pay an invoice (or does not pay in full) because it considers that the 
invoice is inaccurate or incomplete or the Services do not comply with the 
Contract,  
the Contractor will not suspend its work and will not terminate the Contract.  
 
Article 17 Advance 
 
17.1 If the Contracting Authority, for the performance of the Services, pays an advance for 
Services that have not yet been provided, the Contracting Authority may require the 
Contractor to arrange for an on-demand bank guarantee to the value of the advance 
to be issued to the Contracting Authority. The costs of the guarantee will be borne by 
the Contractor.  
17.2 The on-demand bank guarantee will be issued in accordance with the Central 
Government Financial Management Order using the model enclosed with the Contract. 
After the Services have been performed, the document recording the guarantee will be 
returned to the Contractor. 
AVT/BZ-250415-013 
 
Article 18 Potential delays 
 
18.1 If there is a risk that the performance of the Services will be delayed, the Contractor 
will immediately notify the Contracting Authority, stating the cause and the 
consequences of the potential delay. The Contractor will also take measures to prevent 
delays (or further delays).  
18.2 As soon as possible after receiving the notification referred to in paragraph 1, the 
Contracting Authority will inform the Contractor whether the Contracting Authority 
agrees with the proposed measures and the specified consequences. If the Contracting 
Authority agrees this does not imply recognition by the Contracting Authority of the 
cause of the potential delay and does not detract from any other rights or claims 
accruing to the Contracting Authority under the Contract and legislation. 
 
Article 19 Liability  
 
19.1 If a Party fails to fulfil its obligation(s) under the Contract, the other Party may give 
notice of default to the breaching Party in writing or by email. Notice of default is not 
necessary if the breaching Party is already in default on a different statutory basis. The 
notice of default will state a reasonable deadline by which the breaching Party must 
fulfil its obligations. This is a vital deadline. This means that the breaching Party is 
immediately in default if this Party fails to fulfil its obligations by this deadline.  
19.2 Unless the Parties have agreed otherwise, a Party that imputably fails to fulfil its 
obligations is liable to the other Party for any damage that the other Party has suffered 
or will suffer, that liability being limited to a maximum of four times the contract value 
per event and six times the contract value for each year or part of a year that the 
Contract has been in force, up to a maximum of €3,000,000 per event and €5,000,000 
for each year or part of a year in which the Contract has been in force.  
 Related events will be treated as a single event for these purposes. 
19.3 The limitation of liability referred to in paragraph 2 will not apply:  
a. in the event of claims for compensation as a result of death or injury;   
b. in the event of intent or gross negligence on the part of the Party failing to fulfil its 
obligations or on the part of its Staff;   
c. in the event of a breach of intellectual property rights as referred to in article 23; 
d. in the event of claims for compensation due to an infringement of legislation on the 
protection of personal data or actions contrary to the lawful instructions of the 
controller. Damage includes a fine imposed by the supervisory authority. 
19.4 If the Contractor makes use of property belonging to the Contracting Authority as 
referred to in article 5 in performing the Services, the Contractor is liable for damage 
caused to such property for the duration of its use. The provisions of paragraphs 2 and 
3 apply mutatis mutandis.  
19.5 If the Contractor or third parties suffer damage as a result of using property belonging 
to the Contracting Authority as referred to in article 5, the Contractor will bear the full 
expense and risk of that damage.  
19.6 The Contractor bears responsibility for all obligations with respect to the Contractor’s 
Staff, including obligations under tax and social insurance law. The Contractor 
indemnifies the Contracting Authority against any liability in this connection. The 
limitation of liability referred to in paragraph 2 does not apply. 
 
 
 
AVT/BZ-250415-013 
 
Article 20 Force majeure 
 
20.1 A failure in the performance of the Contract which is not attributable to the fault of a 
Party and which is not for the account of that Party according to the law, a juristic act 
or generally accepted standards constitutes force majeure. 
20.1 The term force majeure on the part of the Contractor is in any event deemed not to 
include staff shortages, strikes, Staff illness, late delivery or unsuitability of goods 
required for the performance of the Services, liquidity or solvency problems on the 
part of the Contractor, or shortcomings of the Contractor’s Staff. 
20.3 If the Contractor can claim some benefit in connection with a situation of force majeure 
that the Contractor would not have had in the event of proper performance, the 
Contractor will pay compensation for the damage suffered by the Contracting Authority 
as a consequence of that failure up to a maximum of the value of that benefit. The 
provisions of article 19, paragraph 2 apply in this connection. 
 
Article 21 Cancellation and notice of termination  
 
21.1 Either party may cancel the Contract in full or in part in writing or by email without 
recourse to the courts in the event of a failure on the part of the other Party unless the 
failure, in view of its special nature or limited significance, does not warrant 
cancellation and the consequences thereof. In so far as performance is not 
permanently or temporarily impossible, the Contract can be cancelled only once the 
party obliged to render performance is in default.  
21.2 In the event of force majeure on the part of one of the Parties as referred to in article 
20, the other Party may not cancel the Contract until a period of 15 Working Days has 
elapsed, beginning on the date on which the circumstance causing the force majeure 
arose. 
21.3 The Contracting Authority may cancel the Contract in writing or by email with 
immediate effect without recourse to the courts and without being required to send 
any prior demand or notice of default if:  
a. the Contractor applies for or is granted a provisional or definitive suspension of 
payments, 
b. the Contractor files for bankruptcy or is declared bankrupt, 
c. the Contractor’s business is dissolved, the Contractor’s business ceases trading, 
or the control of the Contractor’s business operations undergoes a major 
change, including a merger or a demerger, 
d. a substantial proportion of the Contractor’s assets are seized, or 
e. the Contractor is deemed on account of other circumstances to be no longer 
capable of fulfilling its obligations under the Contract.  
  In all these cases the Contracting Authority is not required to pay compensation. This 
power also applies if, during the term of the Contract, mandatory grounds for 
exclusion as referred to in public procurement legislation arise. It also applies if 
optional grounds for exclusion have been declared applicable in the tender documents. 
21.4 The Contracting Authority may terminate the Contract in writing or by email at any time 
during the term of the Contract, and may do so with immediate effect. In such an 
event the Contractor is entitled to payment for work already done and costs 
reasonably incurred. In addition, the Contractor is entitled to payment for future 
commitments the Contractor has reasonably assumed for the performance of the 
Services. The Contractor is not entitled to compensation (including for loss of profit) in 
connection with the termination of the Contract. 
AVT/BZ-250415-013 
 
Article 22 Retention of right to demand performance 
 
If a Party omits to demand the performance of a provision of the Contract within a time limit 
set by the Contract, that Party retains the right to demand performance at a later date, 
unless that Party has expressly agreed to the non-performance in writing or by email. 
 
Article 23 Intellectual property rights 
 
23.1 Unless the Parties make different agreements in this regard, all copyrights and all 
database rights to the results of the Services accrue to the Contracting Authority. The 
Contractor assigns these rights to the Contracting Authority as soon as they arise. The 
Contracting Authority accepts this assignment of these rights in advance.  
23.2 If the results of the Services are achieved partly or wholly using existing intellectual 
property rights, the Contractor grants the Contracting Authority a non-exclusive and 
irrevocable right of use for an indefinite period, among other things to publish and 
reproduce (and to have published and reproduced) the results of the Services. In such 
an event the Contractor guarantees that the Contractor is able to grant this right of 
use. 
23.3 If at any time a separate instrument is needed for the assignment of the intellectual 
property rights referred to in paragraph 1, the Contractor authorises the Contracting 
Authority in advance to draft such an instrument and sign it on the Contractor’s behalf. 
The Contractor will in this regard cooperate with the assignment of these rights and 
with registration in the registers designated for that purpose at the Contracting 
Authority’s first request and cannot attach any conditions to its cooperation. 
23.4 If there is a difference of opinion between the Parties on the intellectual property rights 
referred to in paragraph 1 it will be assumed, in the absence of evidence to the 
contrary, that the rights accrue to the Contracting Authority. In all cases, the 
Contracting Authority may continue to use the results of the Services for the purposes 
intended by the Contract. 
23.5 The Contractor hereby renounces, both in its own capacity and on behalf of its Staff, all 
personality rights as referred to in section 25, subsection 1 (a) to (c) of the Copyright 
Act that may accrue to the Contractor, in so far as the Copyright Act permits such a 
renunciation. The Contractor guarantees the Contracting Authority that it is authorised 
to renounce these rights, including on behalf of its Staff. 
23.6 The Contractor indemnifies the Contracting Authority against claims of third parties in 
connection with any breach of their intellectual property rights, including personality 
rights as referred to in section 25, subsection 1 of the Copyright Act and equivalent 
claims relating to know-how, unlawful competition and so forth. The Contractor is 
obliged, at the Contracting Authority’s first request, to assume responsibility for 
defending any proceedings brought against the Contracting Authority in connection 
with the Services for breach of the intellectual property rights of a third party. The 
Contracting Authority will inform the Contractor of any such proceedings as soon as 
possible and provide the Contractor with the necessary powers of attorney and 
assistance. The Contractor also indemnifies the Contracting Authority against all 
damages and costs that the Contracting Authority is ordered to pay in such 
proceedings and against the costs of the proceedings themselves, including the costs 
of obtaining legal advice. 
23.7 If third parties hold the Contracting Authority liable for a breach of intellectual property 
rights, the Contracting Authority may cancel the Contract in full or in part in writing or 
by email without recourse to the courts, without prejudice to the Contracting 
AVT/BZ-250415-013 
 
Authority’s other rights, including the right to compensation. The Contracting Authority 
will not cancel the Contract until the Contracting Authority has consulted the 
Contractor.  
23.8 If the Contractor acquires other intellectual property rights to the results of the Services 
than those referred to in paragraph 1, these rights may never be exercised against the 
Contracting Authority and the Contractor grants the Contracting Authority, free of 
charge, a non-exclusive and irrevocable right of use for an indefinite period, among 
other things to publish and reproduce (and to have published and reproduced) the 
results of the Services. 
 
Article 24 Assignment of rights and obligations under the Contract 
 
24.1 The Parties may not assign rights and obligations arising from the Contract to third 
parties unless the other Party has given its prior consent in writing or by email. 
Consent will not be withheld without reasonable grounds. The Parties may attach 
conditions to such consent. 
24.2 Paragraph 1 does not apply to the establishment of limited rights such as the right of 
pledge.  
 
Article 25 Insurance 
 
25.1 The Contractor has taken out and will retain adequate and customary insurance cover 
in accordance with generally accepted standards.  
25.2 At the Contracting Authority’s request the Contractor will, as soon as possible, provide a 
statement from the insurer in which the insurer specifies what insurance has been 
taken out and declares that the premiums have been paid.  
25.3 The insurance premiums owed by the Contractor are included in the agreed prices and 
fees. 
 
Article 26 Employment conditions 
 
26.1 In performing the Services, the Contractor will comply with the applicable legislation 
on employment conditions and with the collective labour agreement applicable to the 
Contractor and its employees. 
26.2 The Contractor will record all agreements on employment conditions made for the 
purpose of the performance of the Services in a clear and accessible manner. 
26.3 If requested to do so by the competent authorities, the Contractor will grant access as 
soon as possible to the agreements on employment conditions referred to in paragraph 
2 and in addition the Contractor will cooperate with any inspections, audits or salary 
validations. 
26.4 If the Contracting Authority considers this necessary to prevent or deal with a salary 
claim concerning work carried out for the purpose of the performance of the Services, 
the Contractor will grant access as soon as possible to the agreements on employment 
conditions referred to in paragraph 2. 
26.5 The Contractor will impose the obligations arising from the previous paragraphs in full 
on all parties with which it enters into contracts for the purpose of the performance of 
the Services. The Contractor will also stipulate that these parties must impose these 
obligations in full on all parties with which they, in turn, enter into contracts for the 
purpose of the performance of the Services. 
 
AVT/BZ-250415-013 
 
Article 27 Bribery and conflicts of interest 
 
27.1 The Parties will not offer each other or third parties any gift, reward, compensation or 
benefit of any form whatsoever if this could be construed as constituting an illicit 
practice. If this is found to have occurred, the other Party may cancel the Contract in 
full or in part in writing or by email with immediate effect, without notice of default, 
without recourse to the courts and without being required to pay any compensation. 
27.2 If it is found that a member of the Contracting Authority’s Staff holds a position with 
the Contractor, regardless of whether or not such a position is remunerated, or held a 
position with the Contractor when the tender procedure was conducted or when 
negotiations took place on the formation of the Contract, without the Contracting 
Authority having been informed of this by the Contractor prior to the conclusion of the 
Contract, the Contracting Authority may cancel the Contract in full or in part in writing 
or by email with immediate effect, without notice of default, without recourse to the 
courts and without being required to pay any compensation. 
 
Article 28 Void and set-aside provisions 
 
If one or more provisions of the Terms and Conditions or the Contract are found to be void or 
are set aside by a court of law, the remaining provisions will retain their legal force. The 
Parties will consult on the void and set-aside provisions in order to make an alternative 
arrangement. The alternative arrangement must not undermine the purpose and the purport 
of the Terms and Conditions or the Contract. 
 
Article 29 Follow-up order 
 
The Contractor cannot derive any right to obtain follow-up orders from the Contract. 
 
Article 30 Publicity 
 
The Contractor may not refer to the Contract either implicitly or explicitly in publications 
(including press releases) or advertisements and may use the Contracting Authority’s name 
as a reference only if the Contracting Authority gives its prior consent in writing or by email. 
 
Article 31 Long-term provisions 
 
Provisions which by their nature are intended to persist after the Contract has been 
performed will remain in force after the expiry of the Contract. This applies in any event to 
the provisions on requirements for the Services (article 3), confidentiality (article 11), 
liability (article 19), intellectual property rights (article 23), and disputes and applicable law 
(article 32). 
 
Article 32 Disputes and applicable law  
 
32.1 Any dispute between the Parties in connection with the Contract will be submitted only 
to the competent court in the district of The Hague, unless the Parties agree on an 
alternative means of dispute resolution at that time. 
32.2 The Contract is governed exclusively by Dutch law.

=== Document: 202602143 annex 3 draft framework agreement ===
Framework Agreement ARVODI-2025 relating to Expert support Cost 
effectiveness and business case analyses for future offshore wind farm sites 
IUC reference number: 202602143 
 
 
  
The undersigned: 
 
1. The State of the Netherlands, which has its seat in The Hague,  
represented by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Climate Policy, legally represented in this 
matter by Jeroen Lamers, Energy, Climate and Sustainability Directorate of the Netherlands 
Enterprise Agency, hereinafter referred to as the Contracting Authority, 
 
and 
 
2. [Contractor’s full name and legal form],  
which has its registered office in …, legally represented in this matter by 
... [and ...] [signatory’s name], hereinafter referred to as the Contractor, 
 
 
WHEREAS: 
 
- The Contracting Authority wishes, in relation to the performance of Services in the area of 
Expert support Cost effectiveness and business case analyses for future offshore wind farm 
sites to agree fixed terms with 1 (one) service provider for a period of 3 (three) years 
(hereafter referred to as: ‘the Framework Agreement’), laying down the conditions 
applicable to all Services to be performed during the said term; 
 
- In this connection the Contracting Authority has, conducted an EU contract award 
procedure on the basis of the Tender Document and subject to the Public Procurement Act 
2012; 
 
- The Contracting Authority awarded the contract to the Contractor on [date]; 
 
- This Framework Agreement lays down the conditions that apply to all Call-off orders for the 
performance of Services that the Contracting Authority intends to place during the term of 
this Framework Agreement. 
 
 
AGREE AS FOLLOWS: 
 
A number of terms in this Framework Agreement are written with initial capitals. These terms are 
defined in article 1 of the General Government Terms and Conditions for Public Service Contracts 
2025 (ARVODI-2025). In derogation therefrom or in addition thereto, the following terms are 
defined as follows for the purposes of this Framework Agreement: 
 
Tender Document: the Contracting Authority’s document dated [date], ref.202602143, which 
describes the tender procedure, as well as the specific requirements, scope, and conditions for the 
performance of the Services during the term of the Framework Agreement. 
 
 
 
ARVODI-2025 Framework Agreement - expert support cost effectiveness and business case analyses for future 
offshore wind farm sites  2 
 
Services: the work that the Contractor is to perform for the Contracting Authority pursuant to a 
Call-off order, placed on the basis of this Framework Agreement.   
 
Tender: the tender dated xxx, submitted by the Contractor on the basis of the Tender Document in 
the context of the EU contract award procedure dated …. 
 
Call-off order: the unilateral confirmation of order by which the Client informs the Contractor that 
the Client wishes to make use of the Contractor’s services in the field of expert support. The Client 
may call off the Services during the term of the Framework Agreement. 
 
 
1. Object of the Framework Agreement 
 
1.1 During the term of this Framework Agreement, the Client is entitled to issue a Call-off Order 
for the provision of Services. The Contractor is obliged to carry out that Call-off Order in 
accordance with the terms and conditions and rates set out in this Framework Agreement. 
 
1.2 On this Framework Agreement, and on any Call-off orders, are exclusively applicable the 
ARVODI-2025 (already in the possession of the Parties), unless this Framework Agreement 
deviates from them. Any general or special terms and conditions of the Contractor shall not 
apply. 
 
1.3 The following documents are an integral part of this Framework Agreement. In the event of 
inconsistencies, a higher ranked document takes precedence over a lower ranked document: 
1. this document  
2. the Memorandum of Information, [datum invullen]; 
3. the ARVODI-2025 
4. the Tender Document including annexes; 
5. the Tender issued by the Contractor to the Contracting Authority on [datum  invullen]. 
 
1.4 The terms of this Framework Agreement apply in full to all Call-off orders placed during the 
term of this Framework Agreement between the Contracting Authority and the Contractor 
concerning placed Call-off orders for the performance of Services, unless a Call-off order 
expressly departs from this Framework Agreement. 
 
1.5 A Call-off order states the specific Services to which it relates and its duration 
 
 
2. Duration of the Framework Agreement 
 
2.1 This Framework Agreement comes into effect on <<datum>> and has a contract period of 3 
(three) years.  
 
2.2 Termination of this Framework Agreement for whatever reason does not affect rights and 
obligations resulting from any Call-off orders. The terms of this Framework Agreement 
continue to apply to any Call-off orders remaining in force after this Framework Agreement 
has ended. 
 
2.3  The duration of any Call-off order under this Framework Agreement will be stipulated in the 
individual Call-off order for the performance of Services. A Call-off order may continue for a 
maximum of 6 months after the termination of the Framework Agreement. 
 
2.4 In addition to the provisions of article 21 of the ARVODI-2025, Contracting Authority is 
entitled to terminate this Framework Agreement prematurely as soon as the maximum value 
of the contract is reached as described in the Tender Document, or is threatened to be 
exceeded. The Contracting Authority shall not be liable to compensate the Contractor for any 
consequences arising from this termination of the Framework Agreement. Contracting 
 
 
ARVODI-2025 Framework Agreement - expert support cost effectiveness and business case analyses for future 
offshore wind farm sites  3 
 
Authority shall inform Contractor as soon as possible if and when he wants to invoke this 
right and he will observe a reasonable notice period. 
 
 
3. Price and other financial provisions 
 
3.1 The maximum value of the Framework Agreement is as mentioned in the Tender Document. 
 
3.2 The Contractor may invoice after completion of a Call-off order or retrospectively based on 
the actual number of hours worked quarterly. The hourly rates for the performance of the 
Services are: 
 for Senior experts €  XXX per hour (excl. VAT); 
 for Junior experts €  XXX per hour (excl. VAT). 
  
3.3 It is expressly agreed that if the Contractor does not charge VAT but some or all of the 
Services are not exempt from VAT, the Contracting Authority will not be liable to pay the VAT 
in question. 
 
3.4 The hourly rates cover all Services to be performed by the Contractor under this Framework 
Agreement. It includes the cost of any materials needed for that purpose, and any additional 
costs.  
 
3.5 The agreed maximum or other rates are fixed and invariable for the duration of this 
Framework Agreement. 
 
3.6 Article 15.1 of the ARVODI-2025 concerning e-invoicing does not apply to companies 
registered outside the Netherlands. 
You must state the order number on your invoice. You can send your invoice by e-mail in 
PDF format to Energie.Roermond@rvo.nl. 
 
3.7  Payment will be made once the Services performed in accordance with a Call-off order have 
been received and accepted by the Contracting Authority.  
 
 
4. Contacts  
 
4.1 The contact person of the Contracting Authority is [naam en functie]. 
The contact person of the Contractor is [naam en functie].  
 
4.2  Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 8.2 of the ARVODI 2025, the contacts cannot make 
legally binding agreements on the Parties behalf. 
 
 
5. Integrity 
 
The Contractor declares that the Contracting Authority’s Staff have not been given and are 
not being given any benefit in the context of the award of this Framework Agreement. 
 
 
6. Intellectual property rights 
 
6.1 As provided in Articles 23.1, 23.4 and 23.5 of the ARVODI-2025, all copyrights and database 
rights that can be exercised in respect of the results of the Services are assigned to the 
Contracting Authority. The Contractor assigns these rights to the Contracting Authority as 
soon as they arise. 
 
6.2 In addition to Article 23 of the ARVODI 2025, the Contracting Authority has sole authority to 
publish reports or parts thereof. The Contractor will be cited as the implementing 
 
 
ARVODI-2025 Framework Agreement - expert support cost effectiveness and business case analyses for future 
offshore wind farm sites  4 
 
organization if the Contracting Authority decides to do so. If the Contracting Authority 
wishes to publish explanatory notes or a commentary to coincide with the publication of the 
final report, it will consult the Contractor before doing so. 
 
 
7. Obligation to supply information and audit obligation 
 
7.1 If concrete circumstances give cause to do so, the Contracting Authority can perform an 
audit (or have an audit performed by an authorized third party). The Contractor will 
cooperate fully with such audits, including granting access to relevant Contractor’s Staff for 
interviews and operational reviews, unless the Contractor cannot reasonably be expected to 
do so. Contractor has the right to carry out these audits for a period of three years after the 
termination of the Framework Agreement or a Call-off-Contract. 
 
7.2 The Parties themselves will bear the costs they incur in connection with the information 
provision and audits referred to in this article, including the costs of third parties engaged by 
them. 
 
7.3 The Contracting Authority may, as a consequence of the information obtained pursuant to 
this article, propose further measures at any time. The Contractor shall implement such 
measures insofar as reasonable. 
 
 
8 Other Terms and Conditions 
 
8.1 If the duties of confidentiality that apply to the Contractor and its Staff pursuant to article 11 
of the ARVODI 2025 are breached, a penalty of €10.000,- per event is payable by the 
Contractor. 
 
8.2 In addition to Article 25.2 of the ARVODI 2025, it is sufficient to provide a copy of an 
insurance certificate.  
 
8.3 In addition to Article 19 of the ARVODI-2025, the Contractor indemnifies the Contracting 
Authority against any claims for damages brought by third parties as a result of its failure to 
discharge its obligations as referred to in Article 19.2 of the ARVODI-2025. The liability 
amounts set out in Article 19.2 of the ARVODI-2025 apply mutatis mutandis. 
 
8.4 By way of addition to article 21 of the ARVODI 2025 on ending the Contract, the Contracting 
Authority may cancel this Framework Agreement in writing or by email with immediate effect 
without recourse to the courts and without being required to send any prior demand or 
notice of default, in the following cases:  
a.       if the Contractor has been convicted, by final and unappealable judgment, of 
discrimination within the meaning of Articles 137c to 137g and Article 429 quater of the 
Criminal Code; or  
b.      if a member of the Contractor’s Staff has been convicted, by final and unappealable 
judgment, of discrimination within the meaning of Articles 137c to 137g and Article 429 
quater of the Criminal Code and that person is a member of the Contractor’s administrative, 
management or supervisory board or has powers of representation, decision or control 
therein. 
          
In the cases set out under (a) and (b) the right to cancellation expires three years after the 
judgment becomes final and unappealable. 
 
8.5    In addition to the provisions of ARVODI 2025 - Article 20 Force majeure, the following applies 
with respect to force majeure. Disruptions or delays in the performance of assignments as a 
result of the Covid-19 or similar pandemic shall in principle not be regarded by the 
Contracting Authority as a form of force majeure, unless such disruptions or delays result 
directly and demonstrably from measures taken by the central government of the country 
 
 
ARVODI-2025 Framework Agreement - expert support cost effectiveness and business case analyses for future 
offshore wind farm sites  5 
 
where the work is to be performed, containing restrictions on travel movements or transport 
restrictions that were not foreseeable in advance. 
 
 
 
Thus agreed and duly signed by both parties, 
 
 
The Hague, [date]   [place], [date] 
 
 
 
For the Minister of         [name Contractor] 
Economic Affairs and Climate Policy 
  
and commissioned by, 
Jeroen Lamers, Energy, Climate and  
Sustainability Directorate 
the Netherlands Enterprise 
Agency:   
 
 
 
[signatory's name]  [signatory’s name and position] 
 
[Schedule(s): …]