=== Document: annex 8. arvodi-2025 ===
AVT/BZ-250415-013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GENERAL GOVERNMENT TERMS AND CONDITIONS  
FOR  
PUBLIC SERVICE CONTRACTS 2025 
(ARVODI-2025) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adopted by order of 
the Prime Minister, 
Minister of General Affairs, 
of 17 March 2025, no. 4446866 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Central government 
AVT/BZ-250415-013 
 
Article 1 Definitions 
 
The following terms are written with initial capitals in these general terms and conditions and 
are defined as follows: 
1.1 Schedule: an annexe to the Contract that forms part of it. 
1.2 Services: the work that the Contractor is to perform for the Contracting Authority 
under the Contract. 
1.3 Additional Work: work that is not included in the Contract that results in additional 
costs. 
1.4 Contracting Authority: the State of the Netherlands or any other contracting authority 
using these general terms and conditions.  
1.5 Contractor: the counterparty of the Contracting Authority.  
1.6 Contract: the agreement between the Contracting Authority and the Contractor of 
which the Terms and Conditions form part. 
1.7 Party: the Contracting Authority or the Contractor, depending on the context.  
1.8 Parties: the Contracting Authority and the Contractor. 
1.9 Staff: the persons, including subordinates and subcontractors, engaged by the Parties 
in performing the Services. 
1.10 Terms and Conditions: these general terms and conditions.  
1.11 Working Day: calendar day, with the exception of Saturdays and Sundays and official 
public holidays within the meaning of section 3, subsection 1 of the General Extension 
of Time Limits Act. 
 
Article 2 Application 
 
2.1 Amendments or additions to the Contract or derogations from the Terms and 
Conditions are binding only if they have been explicitly agreed in writing or by email 
between the Parties.  
2.2 In the event of inconsistency between the Dutch text of these Terms and Conditions 
and translations of them, the Dutch text will always prevail. 
 
Article 3 Requirements for the Services 
 
The Services to be performed must meet the requirements laid down in the Contract, must 
be suitable for the intended use as arising from the Contract, and must be performed 
competently.  
 
Article 4 Replacement of persons responsible for performing the Services 
 
4.1 The Contractor may temporarily or permanently replace a person who is responsible for 
performing the Services only by way of exception and with the prior consent of the 
Contracting Authority. The Contracting Authority may not withhold its consent without 
reasonable grounds and may attach conditions to its consent. The Contractor will not 
charge a higher fee for the replacement.  
4.2 If the Contracting Authority requests that a person who is responsible for performing the 
Services be replaced because it considers that this is necessary or desirable in the 
interests of the proper performance of the Services, the Contractor will replace this 
person as soon as possible unless that cannot be reasonably demanded of the 
Contractor. The Contractor will not charge a higher fee for the replacement. 
4.3 When replacing a person who is responsible for performing the Services, the Contractor 
AVT/BZ-250415-013 
 
will make available a person who possesses expertise, qualifications and experience at 
least equivalent to that of the person being replaced or who satisfies what has been 
agreed by the Parties in this regard. 
 
Article 5 Use of Contracting Authority’s property  
 
The Parties may agree that in performing the Services the Contractor is to be lent property 
belonging to the Contracting Authority. The Contracting Authority may attach conditions to 
the loan of this property. 
 
Article 6 Subcontracting 
 
6.1 The Contractor may engage or replace subcontractors for the performance of the 
Services only after it has obtained the Contracting Authority’s consent. The 
Contracting Authority will not withhold its consent without reasonable grounds. The 
Contracting Authority may attach conditions to its consent.  
6.2 If the Contracting Authority consents to the engagement or replacement of 
subcontractors the Contractor is and remains responsible and liable for the fulfilment 
of obligations arising from the Contract and obligations arising from tax and social 
insurance legislation. 
 
Article 7 Progress reports 
 
The Contractor will report to the Contracting Authority on the progress of the performance of 
the Services as often as and in the manner laid down in the Contract and, in addition, when 
asked to do so by the Contracting Authority. 
 
Article 8 Contacts 
 
8.1 The Parties will each designate a contact who will maintain day-to-day contact 
concerning the performance of the Services. The Parties will let each other know whom 
they have designated as a contact. 
8.2 The contacts may represent and bind the Parties only in so far as the performance of the 
Services is concerned. They are not authorised to amend the Contract. 
  
Article 9 Supervisory or steering committee 
 
The Parties may include agreements in the Contract on setting up a supervisory or steering 
committee. They may also lay down the duties, powers and composition of the supervisory 
or steering committee in the Contract.    
 
Article 10 Status of notifications, undertakings or agreements 
 
Notifications, undertakings or agreements that are relevant to the performance of the 
Contract are binding on the Parties only if they are given/made or confirmed in writing or by 
email by a person authorised to do so. ‘Email’ is understood to mean electronic 
communication: 
a. that can be consulted by the addressee, 
b. of which the authenticity is sufficiently safeguarded, and 
c. that enables the identity of the person giving the notification to be determined with 
AVT/BZ-250415-013 
 
sufficient certainty.  
In the case of agreements, it must also be possible to determine the moment when the 
agreement was made with sufficient certainty. 
 
Article 11 Confidentiality 
 
11.1 The Parties may not divulge anything that comes to their attention in the course of 
performing the Contract and that they know or may reasonably be assumed to know is 
confidential, unless they are obliged to do so by statute, a supervisory authority with a 
statutory task or a court ruling. If the Parties have agreed an alternative means of 
dispute resolution, a ruling of a body competent under article 32.1 to resolve a dispute 
will be equated with a court ruling for this purpose.  
11.2 The Parties will require their Staff to observe the duty of confidentiality included in 
paragraph 1. 
11.3 The Contractor will cooperate, at the request of the Contracting Authority, in enabling 
supervision, by or on behalf of the Contracting Authority, of the safekeeping and use of 
confidential information by the Contractor. 
11.4 The Contractor must not make the results of the Services available to third parties in 
any form or make any disclosures to third parties about them unless the Contracting 
Authority has given its express prior consent in writing or by email. The Contracting 
Authority may attach conditions to its consent. 
11.5 After the Contract has ended the Contractor must at the Contracting Authority’s first 
request make available as soon as possible to the Contracting Authority information 
that the Contractor has in its possession in connection with the performance of the 
Contract. This does not apply to information that the Contractor is required to have in 
its possession on the basis of legislation or generally accepted professional rules 
applicable to the Contractor. 
11.6 The Contracting Authority may stipulate in the Contract that breach of the duty of 
confidentiality will incur a penalty. The penalty is immediately payable. The 
Contracting Authority is entitled, in addition to the penalty, to compensation for the 
damage caused by the breach. 
 
Article 12 Processing of data 
 
12.1 Without prejudice to the provisions of this article, the Contractor will use the data 
provided by the Contracting Authority and the data generated on the basis thereof on 
the instructions of the Contracting Authority exclusively for the performance of the 
Services and in so far as this use is necessary and proportionate in relation to these 
Services, unless statutory rules provide otherwise. 
12.2 If the Contractor processes personal data for the Contracting Authority in the context of 
the performance of the Contract, the Contractor will comply with the applicable 
legislation on the protection of personal data. The Contractor will process personal 
data only for and on the basis of written instructions from the Contracting Authority, 
unless statutory rules provide otherwise. 
12.3 The Parties will regulate the processing of personal data by the Contractor for the 
Contracting Authority by means of an agreement. 
12.4 The parties will involve each other in a timely manner in putting forward a defence 
against claims from third parties in connection with the processing of personal data in 
the context of the performance of this Contract. 
 
AVT/BZ-250415-013 
 
Article 13 Security 
 
13.1 If the Services are performed at the premises of the Contracting Authority, the 
Contractor will instruct its Staff to comply with the Contracting Authority’s security 
procedures and internal rules. The Contracting Authority will inform the Contractor in a 
timely manner about these procedures and rules. 
13.2 At the Contracting Authority’s request, the Contractor will provide certificates of 
conduct in respect of the Contractor’s Staff no later than three Working Days before 
the performance of the Services at the premises of the Contracting Authority begins. 
 
13.3 The Contracting Authority may subject members of the Contractor’s Staff to security 
checks in accordance with the rules usually applied by the Contracting Authority. The 
Contractor will cooperate fully with these checks. On the basis of the results of a 
security check of this kind or in the event of the refusal of Staff of the Contractor to 
cooperate with a security check of this kind, the Contracting Authority may refuse to 
allow the person in question to be involved in the performance of the Contract. 
 
Article 14 Payment, Additional Work and reductions in the agreed work 
 
14.1 The Contracting Authority will pay the Contractor for all costs the Contractor actually 
incurs and all hours the Contractor actually works, unless the Parties have agreed a 
fixed price in the Contract. In the latter case the Contracting Authority will pay this 
fixed price. 
14.2 The Contracting Authority must be notified as soon as possible of Additional Work. 
Additional Work qualifies for payment only once the Contracting Authority has 
consented to this in writing or by email. Work not included in the Contract that the 
Contractor should have foreseen when the Contract was concluded is not deemed to 
be Additional Work.  
14.3 The Contractor cannot refuse Additional Work desired by the Contracting Authority 
amounting to up to 10% of the original contracted work. The Contractor will issue a 
quotation for the Additional Work in writing or by email, describing the amount of 
expected Additional Work, its duration and the costs involved. The provisions of the 
Contract including those on fees and any discounts are applicable to Additional Work to 
be performed by the Contractor unless the Parties have made other agreements in this 
regard.  
14.4 If a Party considers that there is a reduction in the agreed work, it will notify the other 
Party as soon as possible. The Parties will then jointly establish in writing or by email 
what work will not be performed by the Contractor and how this will affect the agreed 
payment.  
 
Article 15 Invoicing 
 
15.1 Invoicing by the Contractor will be electronic only. The Contractor will submit an e-
invoice in the manner prescribed in the Contract and in accordance with the 
specifications issued by the Contracting Authority so that the Contracting Authority can 
receive and process it electronically. 
15.2 An invoice that does not fulfil all the requirements or does not include all the relevant 
information does not need to be paid by the Contracting Authority. In that case the 
start of the payment period referred to in article 16 is not triggered. The Contracting 
Authority will ask the Contractor for a new invoice that does fulfil the requirements and 
AVT/BZ-250415-013 
 
include all relevant information. 
15.3 If it has been agreed that payment will be based on actual time worked, the Contractor 
will state the number and dates of calendar days or hours actually worked in the 
invoice. In so doing the Contractor will also give a brief description of the work 
performed and of any travel and accommodation expenses in so far as they may be 
charged under the Contract.  
15.4 The Contractor will invoice Additional Work separately. The invoice must comply with 
the provisions of the Contract. 
 
Article 16 Payment and invoice audits 
 
16.1 The Contracting Authority will pay the invoice within 30 calendar days of receiving the 
invoice, provided that the Services and the invoice comply with the Contract.  
16.2 If the Contracting Authority does not pay an invoice within 30 calendar days of receipt 
without valid reason, the Contracting Authority will automatically be liable to pay:  
a.  compensation as referred to in article 6:96, paragraph 4 of the Civil Code and 
b.  the statutory interest as referred to in article 6:119b, paragraph 1 of the Civil 
Code.  
The Contractor will submit separate invoices for the compensation and the interest 
payment. 
16.3 The Contracting Authority can have the accuracy and completeness of an invoice 
audited by an accountant as referred to in article 2:393, paragraph 1 of the Civil Code 
designated by the Contracting Authority. The Contractor will allow the accountant to 
inspect its books and documents and will supply the accountant with any data and 
information asked for by the accountant. This audit will be confidential and will not go 
beyond what is necessary to audit the invoice. The Contracting Authority will bear the 
costs of the audit unless the findings of the audit show that the invoice is not accurate 
or complete. In that case the Contractor will pay the costs of the auditor. 
16.4 The Contracting Authority may suspend payment of an invoice or a portion thereof 
about which the Parties have failed to reach agreement while the audit is being 
conducted. The Contracting Authority will only do so if the Contracting Authority has 
reasonable doubt concerning the accuracy or completeness of the invoice in question. 
16.5 If the Contracting Authority: 
a. does not pay an invoice within the payment period or   
b. does not pay an invoice (or does not pay in full) because it considers that the 
invoice is inaccurate or incomplete or the Services do not comply with the 
Contract,  
the Contractor will not suspend its work and will not terminate the Contract.  
 
Article 17 Advance 
 
17.1 If the Contracting Authority, for the performance of the Services, pays an advance for 
Services that have not yet been provided, the Contracting Authority may require the 
Contractor to arrange for an on-demand bank guarantee to the value of the advance 
to be issued to the Contracting Authority. The costs of the guarantee will be borne by 
the Contractor.  
17.2 The on-demand bank guarantee will be issued in accordance with the Central 
Government Financial Management Order using the model enclosed with the Contract. 
After the Services have been performed, the document recording the guarantee will be 
returned to the Contractor. 
AVT/BZ-250415-013 
 
Article 18 Potential delays 
 
18.1 If there is a risk that the performance of the Services will be delayed, the Contractor 
will immediately notify the Contracting Authority, stating the cause and the 
consequences of the potential delay. The Contractor will also take measures to prevent 
delays (or further delays).  
18.2 As soon as possible after receiving the notification referred to in paragraph 1, the 
Contracting Authority will inform the Contractor whether the Contracting Authority 
agrees with the proposed measures and the specified consequences. If the Contracting 
Authority agrees this does not imply recognition by the Contracting Authority of the 
cause of the potential delay and does not detract from any other rights or claims 
accruing to the Contracting Authority under the Contract and legislation. 
 
Article 19 Liability  
 
19.1 If a Party fails to fulfil its obligation(s) under the Contract, the other Party may give 
notice of default to the breaching Party in writing or by email. Notice of default is not 
necessary if the breaching Party is already in default on a different statutory basis. The 
notice of default will state a reasonable deadline by which the breaching Party must 
fulfil its obligations. This is a vital deadline. This means that the breaching Party is 
immediately in default if this Party fails to fulfil its obligations by this deadline.  
19.2 Unless the Parties have agreed otherwise, a Party that imputably fails to fulfil its 
obligations is liable to the other Party for any damage that the other Party has suffered 
or will suffer, that liability being limited to a maximum of four times the contract value 
per event and six times the contract value for each year or part of a year that the 
Contract has been in force, up to a maximum of €3,000,000 per event and €5,000,000 
for each year or part of a year in which the Contract has been in force.  
 Related events will be treated as a single event for these purposes. 
19.3 The limitation of liability referred to in paragraph 2 will not apply:  
a. in the event of claims for compensation as a result of death or injury;   
b. in the event of intent or gross negligence on the part of the Party failing to fulfil its 
obligations or on the part of its Staff;   
c. in the event of a breach of intellectual property rights as referred to in article 23; 
d. in the event of claims for compensation due to an infringement of legislation on the 
protection of personal data or actions contrary to the lawful instructions of the 
controller. Damage includes a fine imposed by the supervisory authority. 
19.4 If the Contractor makes use of property belonging to the Contracting Authority as 
referred to in article 5 in performing the Services, the Contractor is liable for damage 
caused to such property for the duration of its use. The provisions of paragraphs 2 and 
3 apply mutatis mutandis.  
19.5 If the Contractor or third parties suffer damage as a result of using property belonging 
to the Contracting Authority as referred to in article 5, the Contractor will bear the full 
expense and risk of that damage.  
19.6 The Contractor bears responsibility for all obligations with respect to the Contractor’s 
Staff, including obligations under tax and social insurance law. The Contractor 
indemnifies the Contracting Authority against any liability in this connection. The 
limitation of liability referred to in paragraph 2 does not apply. 
 
 
 
AVT/BZ-250415-013 
 
Article 20 Force majeure 
 
20.1 A failure in the performance of the Contract which is not attributable to the fault of a 
Party and which is not for the account of that Party according to the law, a juristic act 
or generally accepted standards constitutes force majeure. 
20.1 The term force majeure on the part of the Contractor is in any event deemed not to 
include staff shortages, strikes, Staff illness, late delivery or unsuitability of goods 
required for the performance of the Services, liquidity or solvency problems on the 
part of the Contractor, or shortcomings of the Contractor’s Staff. 
20.3 If the Contractor can claim some benefit in connection with a situation of force majeure 
that the Contractor would not have had in the event of proper performance, the 
Contractor will pay compensation for the damage suffered by the Contracting Authority 
as a consequence of that failure up to a maximum of the value of that benefit. The 
provisions of article 19, paragraph 2 apply in this connection. 
 
Article 21 Cancellation and notice of termination  
 
21.1 Either party may cancel the Contract in full or in part in writing or by email without 
recourse to the courts in the event of a failure on the part of the other Party unless the 
failure, in view of its special nature or limited significance, does not warrant 
cancellation and the consequences thereof. In so far as performance is not 
permanently or temporarily impossible, the Contract can be cancelled only once the 
party obliged to render performance is in default.  
21.2 In the event of force majeure on the part of one of the Parties as referred to in article 
20, the other Party may not cancel the Contract until a period of 15 Working Days has 
elapsed, beginning on the date on which the circumstance causing the force majeure 
arose. 
21.3 The Contracting Authority may cancel the Contract in writing or by email with 
immediate effect without recourse to the courts and without being required to send 
any prior demand or notice of default if:  
a. the Contractor applies for or is granted a provisional or definitive suspension of 
payments, 
b. the Contractor files for bankruptcy or is declared bankrupt, 
c. the Contractor’s business is dissolved, the Contractor’s business ceases trading, 
or the control of the Contractor’s business operations undergoes a major 
change, including a merger or a demerger, 
d. a substantial proportion of the Contractor’s assets are seized, or 
e. the Contractor is deemed on account of other circumstances to be no longer 
capable of fulfilling its obligations under the Contract.  
  In all these cases the Contracting Authority is not required to pay compensation. This 
power also applies if, during the term of the Contract, mandatory grounds for 
exclusion as referred to in public procurement legislation arise. It also applies if 
optional grounds for exclusion have been declared applicable in the tender documents. 
21.4 The Contracting Authority may terminate the Contract in writing or by email at any time 
during the term of the Contract, and may do so with immediate effect. In such an 
event the Contractor is entitled to payment for work already done and costs 
reasonably incurred. In addition, the Contractor is entitled to payment for future 
commitments the Contractor has reasonably assumed for the performance of the 
Services. The Contractor is not entitled to compensation (including for loss of profit) in 
connection with the termination of the Contract. 
AVT/BZ-250415-013 
 
Article 22 Retention of right to demand performance 
 
If a Party omits to demand the performance of a provision of the Contract within a time limit 
set by the Contract, that Party retains the right to demand performance at a later date, 
unless that Party has expressly agreed to the non-performance in writing or by email. 
 
Article 23 Intellectual property rights 
 
23.1 Unless the Parties make different agreements in this regard, all copyrights and all 
database rights to the results of the Services accrue to the Contracting Authority. The 
Contractor assigns these rights to the Contracting Authority as soon as they arise. The 
Contracting Authority accepts this assignment of these rights in advance.  
23.2 If the results of the Services are achieved partly or wholly using existing intellectual 
property rights, the Contractor grants the Contracting Authority a non-exclusive and 
irrevocable right of use for an indefinite period, among other things to publish and 
reproduce (and to have published and reproduced) the results of the Services. In such 
an event the Contractor guarantees that the Contractor is able to grant this right of 
use. 
23.3 If at any time a separate instrument is needed for the assignment of the intellectual 
property rights referred to in paragraph 1, the Contractor authorises the Contracting 
Authority in advance to draft such an instrument and sign it on the Contractor’s behalf. 
The Contractor will in this regard cooperate with the assignment of these rights and 
with registration in the registers designated for that purpose at the Contracting 
Authority’s first request and cannot attach any conditions to its cooperation. 
23.4 If there is a difference of opinion between the Parties on the intellectual property rights 
referred to in paragraph 1 it will be assumed, in the absence of evidence to the 
contrary, that the rights accrue to the Contracting Authority. In all cases, the 
Contracting Authority may continue to use the results of the Services for the purposes 
intended by the Contract. 
23.5 The Contractor hereby renounces, both in its own capacity and on behalf of its Staff, all 
personality rights as referred to in section 25, subsection 1 (a) to (c) of the Copyright 
Act that may accrue to the Contractor, in so far as the Copyright Act permits such a 
renunciation. The Contractor guarantees the Contracting Authority that it is authorised 
to renounce these rights, including on behalf of its Staff. 
23.6 The Contractor indemnifies the Contracting Authority against claims of third parties in 
connection with any breach of their intellectual property rights, including personality 
rights as referred to in section 25, subsection 1 of the Copyright Act and equivalent 
claims relating to know-how, unlawful competition and so forth. The Contractor is 
obliged, at the Contracting Authority’s first request, to assume responsibility for 
defending any proceedings brought against the Contracting Authority in connection 
with the Services for breach of the intellectual property rights of a third party. The 
Contracting Authority will inform the Contractor of any such proceedings as soon as 
possible and provide the Contractor with the necessary powers of attorney and 
assistance. The Contractor also indemnifies the Contracting Authority against all 
damages and costs that the Contracting Authority is ordered to pay in such 
proceedings and against the costs of the proceedings themselves, including the costs 
of obtaining legal advice. 
23.7 If third parties hold the Contracting Authority liable for a breach of intellectual property 
rights, the Contracting Authority may cancel the Contract in full or in part in writing or 
by email without recourse to the courts, without prejudice to the Contracting 
AVT/BZ-250415-013 
 
Authority’s other rights, including the right to compensation. The Contracting Authority 
will not cancel the Contract until the Contracting Authority has consulted the 
Contractor.  
23.8 If the Contractor acquires other intellectual property rights to the results of the Services 
than those referred to in paragraph 1, these rights may never be exercised against the 
Contracting Authority and the Contractor grants the Contracting Authority, free of 
charge, a non-exclusive and irrevocable right of use for an indefinite period, among 
other things to publish and reproduce (and to have published and reproduced) the 
results of the Services. 
 
Article 24 Assignment of rights and obligations under the Contract 
 
24.1 The Parties may not assign rights and obligations arising from the Contract to third 
parties unless the other Party has given its prior consent in writing or by email. 
Consent will not be withheld without reasonable grounds. The Parties may attach 
conditions to such consent. 
24.2 Paragraph 1 does not apply to the establishment of limited rights such as the right of 
pledge.  
 
Article 25 Insurance 
 
25.1 The Contractor has taken out and will retain adequate and customary insurance cover 
in accordance with generally accepted standards.  
25.2 At the Contracting Authority’s request the Contractor will, as soon as possible, provide a 
statement from the insurer in which the insurer specifies what insurance has been 
taken out and declares that the premiums have been paid.  
25.3 The insurance premiums owed by the Contractor are included in the agreed prices and 
fees. 
 
Article 26 Employment conditions 
 
26.1 In performing the Services, the Contractor will comply with the applicable legislation 
on employment conditions and with the collective labour agreement applicable to the 
Contractor and its employees. 
26.2 The Contractor will record all agreements on employment conditions made for the 
purpose of the performance of the Services in a clear and accessible manner. 
26.3 If requested to do so by the competent authorities, the Contractor will grant access as 
soon as possible to the agreements on employment conditions referred to in paragraph 
2 and in addition the Contractor will cooperate with any inspections, audits or salary 
validations. 
26.4 If the Contracting Authority considers this necessary to prevent or deal with a salary 
claim concerning work carried out for the purpose of the performance of the Services, 
the Contractor will grant access as soon as possible to the agreements on employment 
conditions referred to in paragraph 2. 
26.5 The Contractor will impose the obligations arising from the previous paragraphs in full 
on all parties with which it enters into contracts for the purpose of the performance of 
the Services. The Contractor will also stipulate that these parties must impose these 
obligations in full on all parties with which they, in turn, enter into contracts for the 
purpose of the performance of the Services. 
 
AVT/BZ-250415-013 
 
Article 27 Bribery and conflicts of interest 
 
27.1 The Parties will not offer each other or third parties any gift, reward, compensation or 
benefit of any form whatsoever if this could be construed as constituting an illicit 
practice. If this is found to have occurred, the other Party may cancel the Contract in 
full or in part in writing or by email with immediate effect, without notice of default, 
without recourse to the courts and without being required to pay any compensation. 
27.2 If it is found that a member of the Contracting Authority’s Staff holds a position with 
the Contractor, regardless of whether or not such a position is remunerated, or held a 
position with the Contractor when the tender procedure was conducted or when 
negotiations took place on the formation of the Contract, without the Contracting 
Authority having been informed of this by the Contractor prior to the conclusion of the 
Contract, the Contracting Authority may cancel the Contract in full or in part in writing 
or by email with immediate effect, without notice of default, without recourse to the 
courts and without being required to pay any compensation. 
 
Article 28 Void and set-aside provisions 
 
If one or more provisions of the Terms and Conditions or the Contract are found to be void or 
are set aside by a court of law, the remaining provisions will retain their legal force. The 
Parties will consult on the void and set-aside provisions in order to make an alternative 
arrangement. The alternative arrangement must not undermine the purpose and the purport 
of the Terms and Conditions or the Contract. 
 
Article 29 Follow-up order 
 
The Contractor cannot derive any right to obtain follow-up orders from the Contract. 
 
Article 30 Publicity 
 
The Contractor may not refer to the Contract either implicitly or explicitly in publications 
(including press releases) or advertisements and may use the Contracting Authority’s name 
as a reference only if the Contracting Authority gives its prior consent in writing or by email. 
 
Article 31 Long-term provisions 
 
Provisions which by their nature are intended to persist after the Contract has been 
performed will remain in force after the expiry of the Contract. This applies in any event to 
the provisions on requirements for the Services (article 3), confidentiality (article 11), 
liability (article 19), intellectual property rights (article 23), and disputes and applicable law 
(article 32). 
 
Article 32 Disputes and applicable law  
 
32.1 Any dispute between the Parties in connection with the Contract will be submitted only 
to the competent court in the district of The Hague, unless the Parties agree on an 
alternative means of dispute resolution at that time. 
32.2 The Contract is governed exclusively by Dutch law.

=== Document: annex 7. complaints procedure ===
Annex 7. Complaints procedure 
 
 
Complaint 
A complaint is a written notification by an enterprise with an interest in the tender1 to the 
contracting authority, in which the entrepreneur specifies with reasons on what points he disagrees 
with the tender or any part of it. 
 
The complaint must at least contain:  
• The date. 
• The name and address of the entrepreneur. 
• The name of the tender. 
• The content of the complaint in which the complaint is clearly defined as such. 
• How the complaint could be resolved according to the entrepreneur. 
 
Not every question by an entrepreneur in a tendering procedure needs to lead to a complaint and 
not every complaint requires going through the entire complaints procedure. Questions and 
requests relating to clarification of aspects of the tendering procedure must be submitted in time 
by the entrepreneur to the contracting authority in accordance with the provisions in the tender 
document. This also applies to a request to make a non-essential change in the tender documents. 
Only if the entrepreneur continues to disagree with the response (in the summary of additional 
information and changes) of the contracting authority, or if a response is not forthcoming, may he 
lodge a complaint with the contracting authority. The entrepreneur may also lodge a complaint 
immediately.  
 
Complaints relate to aspects of the tender that come within the scope of the Tendering Act 2012. 
Complaints may not question the tendering policy of the contracting authority in general. 
 
Who is allowed to lodge a complaint? 
A complaint may be lodged by entrepreneurs with an interest in being awarded a specific tender. 
This includes: 
- interested entrepreneurs  
- (potential) tenderers and candidates 
- subcontractors2 of (potential) tenderers and candidates 
- industry associations and industry-related advice centres of entrepreneurs. 
 
Complaints may not be lodged anonymously. However, if it has any objections, an industry 
association may submit a complaint in its private capacity if this complaint relates to a specific 
tender which concerns one or more entrepreneurs in the industry. 
 
What is the final date for submitting a complaint? 
 
1 Tender also includes the offer procedure. 
2 Subcontractors may lodge a complaint in so far as the complaint does not concern the relationship between 
main contractor and subcontractor. 
 
Annex 7 to the Tender Document ‘Provision of commodity price Datasets’ 
(IUC-reference 202603054)  Page 2 of 2 
 
The entrepreneur is advised to lodge his complaint at the earliest possible opportunity. If the 
complaint is submitted too late, the contracting authority will not be able to resolve the complaint 
during the ongoing procedure. 
 
Submitting a complaint does not stop a tender procedure. The contracting authority may or may 
not decide to suspend the procedure. 
 
Where should you submit your complaint?  
Complaints should be submitted in writing to: 
KlachtenmeldpuntAanbesteden@minez.nl  
 
The complaint will be dealt with by one or more persons who have not been involved with the 
tender to which the complaint relates. 
 
The complaints handling procedure 
a. After receiving the complaint in the manner described above, the complaints office immediately 
confirms it has received the complaint. 
b. The complaints office subsequently investigates if the complaint is legitimate, if necessary on 
the basis of information provided by the entrepreneur and the contracting authority. The 
complaints office starts this investigation as soon as possible, proceeds expeditiously, while 
taking account of the schedule of the tender procedure. 
c. If, after the complaint has been investigated by the complaints office, the contracting authority 
concludes that the complaint is (partially) legitimate and the contracting authority takes 
corrective and/or preventive measures, the contracting authority will inform the entrepreneur 
of this in writing as soon as possible. The other (potential) tenderers and candidates are also 
informed. Depending on the stage of the tender procedure, the contact person of the tender of 
the contracting authority may communicate the measures to the persons involved in the tender 
at the same time as the person who made the complaint is informed. This is to prevent giving 
undue preference to any of the parties.  
d. If, after the investigation, the contracting authority concludes that the complaint is not 
legitimate, it will reject the complaint giving its reasons for doing so and inform the 
entrepreneur. 
e. At the request of the entrepreneur or the contracting authority, the complaints office may 
propose, before the contracting authority makes a decision, to have the complaint submitted to 
the Committee of Tendering Experts (article 4.27 Aanbestedingswet (Public Procurement Act) 
2012). 
f. When the contracting authority has informed the entrepreneur of the decision it has reached, 
or if the contracting authority fails to respond to the complaint within a reasonable term, the 
complainant may submit the complaint to the Committee of Tendering Experts.

=== Document: annex 6. response to requirement and award ===
Annex  6 . Response to  requirement and  Award criteria European open procedure ‘Provision of commodity price Datasets’ with IUC-reference 202603054 The Tenderer shall use this format for the elaboration of the  requirement and A ward criteria. The layout and structure of this format must be maintained unchanged. The Tenderer may determine how much space is used for each section, provided that the total remains within the maximum number of A4-pages permitted per criterion. Any added CVs, visual materials and/or planning schedules will not be included in the maximum page count. The full texts in Section 5 are decisive with regard to the award criteria, assessment aspects and assessment criteria. The Tenderer is permitted to remove the curved texts included in this format from its Tender. General   Name Tenderer: Response to requirement  concerning the  requested services Requirement  3.1.5  relating to the services The delivery of the first Dataset must be within one (1) month after the commencement date of the Contract. This Dataset must be accompanied by supporting assumptions and narratives.  By submitting a Tender, the Tenderer indicates that it  can  meet this requirement. The  Tenderer is requested to describe how it will ensure delivery of the first Dataset within one (1) month after Contract award . <<Elaboration on requirement  3.1.5 >> Response to Award criteria 1:   Plan of Approach  (max imum  5  A4-pages and  max imum 600 points ) Any attached visual materials and/or planning schedules will not be included in the page limit. Approach to delivery and maintenance of the Dataset  ( maximum  200 points) The Tenderer shall describe how the Dataset will be produced, maintained and updated throughout the term of the Contract. Besides that, the Tenderer shall also explain how the proposed approach ensures reliable, usable, and continuous delivery of the Dataset for government specialists assessing decarbonisation projects. << Elaboration on  sub-award criterion  1. 1 >> Scenario development and modelling methodology  ( maximum   200 points) The Tenderer shall explain how its market view is translated into concrete scenarios and price outlooks through 2060. This explanation shall include the macro-economic, industry, technology, and policy assumptions underpinning the market view (e.g. GDP growth, inflation, demand trends, decarbonisation pathways, technology cost curves, and fiscal and regulatory policies). For this sub-award criterion, the Tenderer shall also submit a sample (dummy) report illustrating the anticipated format and structure of the deliverable. As stated in Section 3.1.13, the format of the Dataset is not prescribed. However, the final Dataset must be downloadable in Excel format to allow easy import, export, and modification of the data. <<Elaboration on award  sub-award  criteri on  1.2>> 1.3   P eriodic  updates, and quality assurance  (  maximum  125 points) The Tenderer shall explain how periodic updates of the Dataset will be provided and how the quality and consistency of the information will be maintained. <<Elaboration on  sub-award criterion  1.3>> 1. 4     Adding  additional  commodities to the Dataset  (max imum  75 points) The Tenderer shall describe the possibilities for adding additional commodities to the Dataset during the term of the  Contract  and explain how such requests will be managed. The Tenderer shall take into account that the unit price for adding additional commodities to the Dataset shall be calculated based on the average commodity price, as further specified in paragraph 3.2.3. <<Elaboration on  sub-award criterion  1. 4 >> 2:  Pro posed  team (maximum 2 A4-pages and maximum 200 points) Any attached CVs and/or visual materials will not be included in the page limit. The Tenderer is requested to describe the proposed team for this award criterion. The Tenderer shall include the following in its proposal: - An overview of the proposed team composition, including the names, roles, responsibilities, task distribution and an explanation of the suitability of the proposed team; - A brief CV for each proposed team member, including relevant education, work experience and relevant assignments; - A description of the measures in place to ensure the availability of suitably qualified personnel throughout the term of the Contract, including arrangements for personnel replacement where necessary. <<Elaboration on award criteri on  2>>

=== Document: annex 4. reference statement ===
Annex 4. Reference statement European open procedure ‘Provision of commodity price Datasets’ with IUC-reference  202603054 The Tendering Authority has set the following core competences, which demonstrate experience with essential aspects of the Contract: The Tenderer has demonstrable experience in the development and delivery of a complex, data-intensive dataset that is updated on a regular basis (at least twice per year) for a client in the  public sector , such as government ministry, executive public agency, provincial authority, or other public body. The dataset shall contain at least five (5) different commodities. This experience will be evidenced by one reference project that meets all requirements set out in this paragraph. The contract value of the reference project shall be at least € 270.000,- excluding VAT. The Tenderer has demonstrable experience in the development and delivery of a complex, data-intensive dataset that is updated on a regular basis (at least twice per year) for a client in the  private sector  who is active in commodity trading, energy markets, steel, chemicals, electricity generation, and/or international gas trading. The dataset must contain at least five (5) different commodities. This experience will be evidenced by one reference project that meets all requirements set out in this paragraph. The contract value of the reference project shall be at least € 270.000,- excluding VAT. Each of the core competences listed above  must meet the following minimum requirements: The reference assignment must have been executed or completed within the  three (3) years  prior to the closing date for the submission of tenders. If the Tenderer uses an assignment that is not yet fully complete, then only the completed results of the ongoing assignment can be submitted for reference purposes: projected results cannot be taken into consideration. The reference-assignment value must exclusively consist of the value of the aspects of the assignment that are equivalent to the service specified in this document. In case a series of separate yet significantly comparable assignments were carried out for the same client during the reference period, then the turnover of these separate assignments can be combined into a cumulative total. Referen ce statement  ( to be filled in by Tenderer) Na me Tenderer: Competence 1:  The Tenderer has demonstrable experience in the development and delivery of a complex, data-intensive dataset that is updated on a regular basis (at least twice per year) for a client in the  public sector , such as government ministry, executive public agency, provincial authority, or other public body. The dataset shall contain at least five (5) different commodities. Experience with the requested competence: Yes or No Description of the assignment/service: Duration of the assignment/service: From : ___-___-______  until  ___-___-______ Contract value of each assignment: €  ________ _______________excluding VAT Other details : To be filled in by  the Referee  regarding  c ompetence 1 Comments: Company Name of the Referee: Name of the Referee: Position of the Referee: Telephone Number of the Referee: Signature confirming agreement with the content s  of the reference: Date: Reference statement (to be filled in by Tenderer) Name Tenderer: Competence 2: The Tenderer has demonstrable experience in the development and delivery of a complex, data-intensive dataset that is updated on a regular basis (at least twice per year) for a client in the  private sector  who is active in commodity trading, energy markets, steel, chemicals, electricity generation, and/or international gas trading. The dataset must contain at least five (5) different commodities. Experience with the requested competence: Yes or No Description of the assignment/service: Duration of the assignment/service: From: ___-___-______ until ___-___-______ Contract value of each assignment: € ___________ ________ ____excluding VAT Other details: To be filled in by  Referee  regarding  c ompetence 2 Comments: Company Name of the Referee: Name of the Referee: Position of the Referee: Telephone Number of the Referee: Signature confirming agreement with the content s  of the reference: Date:

=== Document: annex 3. european single procurement document ===
European Single ProcurementDocument (ESPD)
Part I: Information concerning the procurement procedure
and the contracting authority or contracting entity
Information about publication
For procurement procedures in which a call for competition has been published in
the Official Journal of the European Union, the information required under Part I
will be automatically retrieved, provided that the electronic ESPD-service is used
to generate and fill in the ESPD. Reference of the relevant notice published in the
Official Journal of the European Union:
Received notice number
-
Notice number in the OJS:
-
OJS URL
National Official Journal
-
In case publication of a notice in the Official Journal of the European Union is not
required, please give other information allowing the procurement procedure to be
unequivocally identified (e. g. reference of a publication at national level)
Identity of the procurer
Official name:
Rijksdienst voor Ondernemend Nederland
Country:
Netherlands
Information about the procurement procedure
Type of procedure
Open procedure
Title:
Provision of commodity price Datasets
Short description:
-
-1-
File reference number attributed by the contracting authority or
contracting entity (if applicable):
202603054
Part II: Information concerning the economic operator
A: Information about the economic operator
Name:
-
Street and number:
-
Postcode:
-
City:
-
Country:
---
Internet address (web address) (if applicable):
-
E-mail:
-
Telephone:
-
Contact person or persons:
-
VAT number, if applicable:
-
If no VAT number is applicable, please indicate another national
identification number, if required and applicable
-
Is the economic operator a Micro, a Small or a Medium-Sized Enterprise?
❍ Yes
❍ No
Only in case the procurement is reserved: is the economic operator
a sheltered workshop, a 'social business' or will it provide for the
performance of the contract in the context of sheltered employment
programmes?
-2-
❍ Yes
❍ No
What is the corresponding percentage of disabled or disadvantaged
workers?
-
If required, please specify which category or categories of disabled or
disadvantaged workers the employees concerned belong to?
-
If applicable, is the economic operator registered on an official list of
approved economic operators or does it have an equivalent certificate
(e.g. under a national (pre)qualification system)?
❍ Yes
❍ No     
• Please answer the remaining parts of this Section, Sections B and, where
relevant, C of this Part, complete Part V, where applicable, and, in any case, fill
in and sign Part VI.
a) Please provide the name of the list or certificate and the relevant
registration or certification number, if applicable:
-
b) If the certificate of registration or certification is available
electronically, please state:
-
c) Please state the references on which the registration or certification
is based, and, where applicable, the classification obtained in the official
list:
-
d) Does the registration or certification cover all of the required
selection criteria?
❍ Yes
❍ No
• In addition, please complete the missing information in Part IV, Sections A,
B, C or D as the case may be ONLY if this is required in the relevant notice or
procurement documents
-3-
e) Will the economic operator be able to provide a certificate with regard
to the payment of social security contributions and taxes or provide
information enabling the contracting authority or contracting entity to
obtaining it directly by accessing a national database in any Member
State that is available free of charge?
❍ Yes
❍ No
If the relevant documentation is available electronically, please indicate:
-
Is the economic operator participating in the procurement procedure
together with others?
❍ Yes
❍ No
• Please ensure that the others concerned provide a separate ESPD form.
a) Please indicate the role of the economic operator in the group (leader,
responsible for specific tasks...):
-
b) Please identify the other economic operators participating in the
procurement procedure together:
-
c) Where applicable, name of the participating group:
-
Where applicable, indication of the lot(s) for which the economic
operator wishes to tender:
-
B: Information about representatives of the economic operator #1
• Where applicable, please indicate the name(s) and address(es) of the
person(s) empowered to represent the economic operator for the purposes of
this procurement procedure:
First name
-4-
-
Last name
-
Date of birth
-
Place of birth
-
Street and number:
-
Postcode:
-
City:
-
Country:
---
E-mail:
-
Telephone:
-
Position/Acting in the capacity of:
-
If needed, please provide detailed information on the representation (its
forms, extent, purpose ...):
-
C: Information about reliance on the capacities of other entities
Does the economic operator rely on the capacities of other entities in
order to meet the selection criteria set out under Part IV and the criteria
and rules (if any) set out under Part V below?
❍ Yes
❍ No
• Please provide a separate ESPD form setting out the information required
under Sections A and B of this Part and Part III for each of the entities
concerned, duly filled in and signed by the entities concerned.
Please note that this should also include any technicians or technical bodies,
not belonging directly to the economic operator's undertaking, especially
those responsible for quality control and, in the case of public works contracts,
-5-
the technicians or technical bodies upon whom the economic operator can call
in order to carry out the work.
Insofar as it is relevant for the specific capacity or capacities on which the
economic operator relies, please include the information under Parts IV and V
for each of the entities concerned.
D: Information concerning subcontractors on whose capacity the
economic operator does not rely
• (Section to be filled-in only if this information is explicitly required by the
contracting authority or contracting entity.)
Does the economic operator intend to subcontract any share of the
contract to third parties?
❍ Yes
❍ No
If yes and in so far as known, please list the proposed subcontractors:
-
• If the contracting authority or contracting entity explicitly requests this
information in addition to the information under Part I, please provide the
information required under Sections A and B of this Part and Part III for each of
the (categories of) subcontractors concerned.
Part III: Exclusion grounds
A: Grounds relating to criminal convictions
Article 57(1) of Directive 2014/24/EU sets out the following reasons for
exclusion
Participation in a criminal organisation
Has the economic operator itself or any person who is a member of its
administrative, management or supervisory body or has powers of representation,
decision or control therein been the subject of a conviction by final judgment
for participation in a criminal organisation, by a conviction rendered at the most
five years ago or in which an exclusion period set out directly in the conviction
continues to be applicable? As defined in Article 2 of Council Framework Decision
2008/841/JHA of 24 October 2008 on the fight against organised crime (OJ L 300,
11.11.2008, p. 42).
-6-
Your answer?
❍ Yes
❍ No
Is this information available at no cost to the authorities from an EU
Member State database?
❍ Yes
❍ No
URL
-
Reference/Code
-
Issuer
-
Corruption
Has the economic operator itself or any person who is a member of its
administrative, management or supervisory body or has powers of representation,
decision or control therein been the subject of a conviction by final judgment for
corruption, by a conviction rendered at the most five years ago or in which an
exclusion period set out directly in the conviction continues to be applicable? As
defined in Article 3 of the Convention on the fight against corruption involving
officials of the European Communities or officials of Member States of the
European Union, OJ C 195, 25.6.1997, p. 1, and in Article 2(1) of Council
Framework Decision 2003/568/JHA of 22 July 2003 on combating corruption in the
private sector (OJ L 192, 31.7.2003, p. 54). This exclusion ground also includes
corruption as defined in the national law of the contracting authority (contracting
entity) or the economic operator. "
Your answer?
❍ Yes
❍ No
Is this information available at no cost to the authorities from an EU
Member State database?
❍ Yes
❍ No
URL
-
-7-
Reference/Code
-
Issuer
-
Fraud
Has the economic operator itself or any person who is a member of its
administrative, management or supervisory body or has powers of representation,
decision or control therein been the subject of a conviction by final judgment for
fraud, by a conviction rendered at the most five years ago or in which an exclusion
period set out directly in the conviction continues to be applicable? Within
the meaning of Article 1 of the Convention on the protection of the European
Communities' financial interests (OJ C 316, 27.11.1995, p. 48).
Your answer?
❍ Yes
❍ No
Is this information available at no cost to the authorities from an EU
Member State database?
❍ Yes
❍ No
URL
-
Reference/Code
-
Issuer
-
Terrorist offences or offences linked to terrorist activities
Has the economic operator itself or any person who is a member of its
administrative, management or supervisory body or has powers of representation,
decision or control therein been the subject of a conviction by final judgment
for terrorist offences or offences linked to terrorist activities, by a conviction
rendered at the most five years ago or in which an exclusion period set out
directly in the conviction continues to be applicable? As defined in Articles 1 and 3
of Council Framework Decision of 13 June 2002 on combating terrorism (OJ L 164,
22.6.2002, p. 3). This exclusion ground also includes inciting or aiding or abetting
or attempting to commit an offence, as referred to in Article 4 of that Framework
Decision.
-8-
Your answer?
❍ Yes
❍ No
Is this information available at no cost to the authorities from an EU
Member State database?
❍ Yes
❍ No
URL
-
Reference/Code
-
Issuer
-
Money laundering or terrorist financing
Has the economic operator itself or any person who is a member of its
administrative, management or supervisory body or has powers of representation,
decision or control therein been the subject of a conviction by final judgment for
money laundering or terrorist financing, by a conviction rendered at the most
five years ago or in which an exclusion period set out directly in the conviction
continues to be applicable? As defined in Article 1 of Directive 2005/60/EC of the
European Parliament and of the Council of 26 October 2005 on the prevention of
the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist
financing (OJ L 309, 25.11.2005, p. 15).
Your answer?
❍ Yes
❍ No
Is this information available at no cost to the authorities from an EU
Member State database?
❍ Yes
❍ No
URL
-
Reference/Code
-
Issuer
-9-
-
Child labour and other forms of trafficking in human beings
Has the economic operator itself or any person who is a member of its
administrative, management or supervisory body or has powers of representation,
decision or control therein been the subject of a conviction by final judgment
for child labour and other forms of trafficking in human beings, by a conviction
rendered at the most five years ago or in which an exclusion period set out
directly in the conviction continues to be applicable? As defined in Article 2 of
Directive 2011/36/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 April
2011 on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings and protecting
its victims, and replacing Council Framework Decision 2002/629/JHA (OJ L 101,
15.4.2011, p. 1).
Your answer?
❍ Yes
❍ No
Is this information available at no cost to the authorities from an EU
Member State database?
❍ Yes
❍ No
URL
-
Reference/Code
-
Issuer
-
B: Grounds relating to the payment of taxes or social security
contributions
Article 57(2) of Directive 2014/24/EU sets out the following reasons for
exclusion
Payment of taxes
Has the economic operator breached its obligations relating to the payment
of taxes, both in the country in which it is established and in Member State
of the contracting authority or contracting entity if other than the country of
establishment?
Your answer?
-10-
❍ Yes
❍ No
Country or Member State concerned
---
Amount concerned
-
---
Has this breach of obligations been established by means other than a judicial or
administrative decision?
❍ Yes
❍ No
If this breach of obligations was established through a judicial or administrative
decision, was this decision final and binding?
❍ Yes
❍ No
Please indicate the date of conviction or decision
-
In case of a conviction, insofar as established directly therein, the length
of the period of exclusion
-
Please describe which means were used
-
Has the economic operator fulfilled its obligations by paying or entering into
a binding arrangement with a view to paying the taxes or social security
contributions due, including, where applicable, any interest accrued or fines?
❍ Yes
❍ No
Please describe them
-
Is this information available at no cost to the authorities from an EU
Member State database?
❍ Yes
❍ No
URL
-
Reference/Code
-11-
-
Issuer
-
Payment of social security
Has the economic operator breached its obligations relating to the payment social
security contributions, both in the country in which it is established and in Member
State of the contracting authority or contracting entity if other than the country of
establishment?
Your answer?
❍ Yes
❍ No
Country or Member State concerned
---
Amount concerned
-
---
Has this breach of obligations been established by means other than a judicial or
administrative decision?
❍ Yes
❍ No
If this breach of obligations was established through a judicial or administrative
decision, was this decision final and binding?
❍ Yes
❍ No
Please indicate the date of conviction or decision
-
In case of a conviction, insofar as established directly therein, the length
of the period of exclusion
-
Please describe which means were used
-
Has the economic operator fulfilled its obligations by paying or entering into
a binding arrangement with a view to paying the taxes or social security
contributions due, including, where applicable, any interest accrued or fines?
❍ Yes
❍ No
Please describe them
-12-
-
Is this information available at no cost to the authorities from an EU
Member State database?
❍ Yes
❍ No
URL
-
Reference/Code
-
Issuer
-
C: Grounds relating to insolvency, conflicts of interests or professional
misconduct
Article 57(4) of Directive 2014/24/EU sets out the following reasons for
exclusion
Breaching of obligations in the field of environmental law
Has the economic operator, to its knowledge, breached its obligations in the
field of environmental law? As referred to for the purposes of this procurement
in national law, in the relevant notice or the procurement documents or in Article
18(2) of Directive 2014/24/EU.
Your answer?
❍ Yes
❍ No
Please describe them
-
Have you taken measures to demonstrate your reliability ("Self-Cleaning")
❍ Yes
❍ No
Please describe them
-
Breaching of obligations in the field of social law
Has the economic operator, to its knowledge, breached its obligations in the
field of social law? As referred to for the purposes of this procurement in national
law, in the relevant notice or the procurement documents or in Article 18(2) of
Directive 2014/24/EU.
-13-
Your answer?
❍ Yes
❍ No
Please describe them
-
Have you taken measures to demonstrate your reliability ("Self-Cleaning")
❍ Yes
❍ No
Please describe them
-
Breaching of obligations in the fields of labour law
Has the economic operator, to its knowledge, breached its obligations in the field
of labour law? As referred to for the purposes of this procurement in national
law, in the relevant notice or the procurement documents or in Article 18(2) of
Directive 2014/24/EU.
Your answer?
❍ Yes
❍ No
Please describe them
-
Have you taken measures to demonstrate your reliability ("Self-Cleaning")
❍ Yes
❍ No
Please describe them
-
Bankruptcy
Is the economic operator bankrupt? This information needs not be given if
exclusion of economic operators in this case has been made mandatory under the
applicable national law without any possibility of derogation where the economic
operator is nevertheless able to perform the contract.
Your answer?
❍ Yes
❍ No
Please describe them
-
Indicate reasons for being able nevertheless to perform the contract
-
-14-
Is this information available at no cost to the authorities from an EU
Member State database?
❍ Yes
❍ No
URL
-
Reference/Code
-
Issuer
-
Insolvency
Is the economic operator the subject of insolvency or winding-up? This information
needs not be given if exclusion of economic operators in this case has been made
mandatory under the applicable national law without any possibility of derogation
where the economic operator is nevertheless able to perform the contract.
Your answer?
❍ Yes
❍ No
Please describe them
-
Indicate reasons for being able nevertheless to perform the contract
-
Is this information available at no cost to the authorities from an EU
Member State database?
❍ Yes
❍ No
URL
-
Reference/Code
-
Issuer
-
Arrangement with creditors
Is the economic operator in arrangement with creditors? This information needs
not be given if exclusion of economic operators in this case has been made
-15-
mandatory under the applicable national law without any possibility of derogation
where the economic operator is nevertheless able to perform the contract.
Your answer?
❍ Yes
❍ No
Please describe them
-
Indicate reasons for being able nevertheless to perform the contract
-
Is this information available at no cost to the authorities from an EU
Member State database?
❍ Yes
❍ No
URL
-
Reference/Code
-
Issuer
-
Analogous situation like bankruptcy under national law
Is the economic operator in in any analogous situation like bankruptcy arising
from a similar procedure under national laws and regulations? This information
needs not be given if exclusion of economic operators in this case has been made
mandatory under the applicable national law without any possibility of derogation
where the economic operator is nevertheless able to perform the contract.
Your answer?
❍ Yes
❍ No
Please describe them
-
Indicate reasons for being able nevertheless to perform the contract
-
Is this information available at no cost to the authorities from an EU
Member State database?
❍ Yes
-16-
❍ No
URL
-
Reference/Code
-
Issuer
-
Assets being administered by liquidator
Are the assets of the economic operator being administered by a liquidator or by
the court? This information needs not be given if exclusion of economic operators
in this case has been made mandatory under the applicable national law without
any possibility of derogation where the economic operator is nevertheless able to
perform the contract.
Your answer?
❍ Yes
❍ No
Please describe them
-
Indicate reasons for being able nevertheless to perform the contract
-
Is this information available at no cost to the authorities from an EU
Member State database?
❍ Yes
❍ No
URL
-
Reference/Code
-
Issuer
-
Business activities are suspended
Are the business activities of the economic operator suspended? This information
needs not be given if exclusion of economic operators in this case has been made
mandatory under the applicable national law without any possibility of derogation
where the economic operator is nevertheless able to perform the contract.
Your answer?
-17-
❍ Yes
❍ No
Please describe them
-
Indicate reasons for being able nevertheless to perform the contract
-
Is this information available at no cost to the authorities from an EU
Member State database?
❍ Yes
❍ No
URL
-
Reference/Code
-
Issuer
-
Agreements with other economic operators aimed at distorting
competition
Has the economic operator entered into agreements with other economic
operators aimed at distorting competition?
Your answer?
❍ Yes
❍ No
Please describe them
-
Have you taken measures to demonstrate your reliability ("Self-Cleaning")
❍ Yes
❍ No
Please describe them
-
Guilty of grave professional misconduct
Is the economic operator guilty of grave professional misconduct? Where
applicable, see definitions in national law, the relevant notice or the procurement
documents.
Your answer?
❍ Yes
-18-
❍ No
Please describe them
-
Have you taken measures to demonstrate your reliability ("Self-Cleaning")
❍ Yes
❍ No
Please describe them
-
Conflict of interest due to its participation in the procurement procedure
Is the economic operator aware of any conflict of interest, as indicated in national
law, the relevant notice or the procurement documents due to its participation in
the procurement procedure?
Your answer?
❍ Yes
❍ No
Please describe them
-
Direct or indirect involvement in the preparation of this procurement
procedure
Has the economic operator or an undertaking related to it advised the contracting
authority or contracting entity or otherwise been involved in the preparation of
the procurement procedure?
Your answer?
❍ Yes
❍ No
Please describe them
-
Early termination, damages or other comparable sanctions
Has the economic operator experienced that a prior public contract, a prior
contract with a contracting entity or a prior concession contract was terminated
early, or that damages or other comparable sanctions were imposed in connection
with that prior contract?
Your answer?
❍ Yes
❍ No
Please describe them
-
-19-
Have you taken measures to demonstrate your reliability ("Self-Cleaning")
❍ Yes
❍ No
Please describe them
-
Guilty of misinterpretation, withheld information, unable to provide
required documents and obtained confidential information of this
procedure
Can the economic operator confirm that:
a) It has been guilty of serious misrepresentation in supplying the information
required for the verification of the absence of grounds for exclusion or the
fulfilment of the selection criteria,
b) It has withheld such information,
c) It has not been able, without delay, to submit the supporting documents
required by a contracting authority or contracting entity, and
d) It has undertaken to unduly influence the decision making process of the
contracting authority or contracting entity, to obtain confidential information
that may confer upon it undue advantages in the procurement procedure or to
negligently provide misleading information that may have a material influence on
decisions concerning exclusion, selection or award?
Your answer?
❍ Yes
❍ No
Part IV: Selection criteria
A: Suitability
Article 58(2) of Directive 2014/24/EU sets out the following selection
criteria
Enrolment in a trade register
It is enrolled in trade registers kept in the Member State of its establishment as
described in Annex XI of Directive 2014/24/EU; economic operators from certain
Member States may have to comply with other requirements set out in that
Annex.
Your answer?
❍ Yes
❍ No
-20-
Is this information available at no cost to the authorities from an EU
Member State database?
❍ Yes
❍ No
URL
-
Reference/Code
-
Issuer
-
C: Technical and professional ability
Article 58(4) of Directive 2014/24/EU sets out the following selection
criteria
For service contracts: performance of services of the specified type
For public service contracts only: During the reference period, the economic
operator has provided the following main services of the type specified.
Contracting authorities may require up to three years and allow experience dating
from more than three years.
Description
-
Amount
-
---
Start date
-
End date
-
Recipients
-
 
Is this information available at no cost to the authorities from an EU
Member State database?
❍ Yes
❍ No
-21-
URL
-
Reference/Code
-
Issuer
-
Finish
Part VI: Concluding statements
The economic operator formally declares that the information stated under Parts II
- V above is accurate and correct and that it has been set out in full awareness of
the consequences of serious misrepresentation.
The economic operator formally declares to be able, upon request and without
delay, to provide the certificates and other forms of documentary evidence
referred to, except where:
a) The contracting authority or contracting entity has the possibility of
obtaining the supporting documentation concerned directly by accessing
a national database in any Member State that is available free of charge
(on condition that the economic operator has provided the necessary
information (web address, issuing authority or body, precise reference of the
documentation) allowing the contracting authority or contracting entity to do
so. Where required, this must be accompanied by the relevant consent to such
access), or
b) As of 18 October 2018 at the latest (depending on the national
implementation of the second subparagraph of Article 59(5) of Directive
2014/24/EU), the contracting authority or contracting entity already possesses
the documentation concerned.
The economic operator formally consents to the contracting authority or
contracting entity as set out in Part I, gaining access to documents supporting
the information, which has been provided in Part III and Part IV of this
European Single Procurement Document for the purposes of the procurement
procedure as set out in Part I.
Date, place and, where required or necessary, signature(s):
Date
-
Place
-22-
-
Signature
-23-